DuBois Chemicals Holdings Inc.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Edward J Hudson, New York + 1 (212) 438 2764; edward.hudson@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Daniel S Krauss, CFA, New York (1) 212-438-2641; danny.krauss@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Environmental, Social, And Governance
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 1

DuBois Chemicals Holdings Inc.
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b-

b-

b-

B-/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key strengths

Key Risks

Moderate customer diversification.

Limited geographic diversity, as the company primarily derives revenues and
earnings from the U.S.

Modest product diversification within the specialty chemical
manufacturing and services space.

Participates in niche markets with small market share and in some markets it
competes with larger, financially stronger companies.

Average profitability amongst specialty chemical peers.

Financial sponsor ownership with highly leveraged credit metrics.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 2

DuBois Chemicals Holdings Inc.

Outlook: Stable

S&P Global Ratings' stable outlook reflects our expectation that DuBois Chemicals Holdings Inc. will maintain
operational performance levels resulting in weighted-average debt to EBITDA between 6x and 7x. We expect
DuBois to continue improving EBITDA margins and top-line growth as it diversifies into more profitable end
markets and recognizes synergies through tuck-in acquisitions that will result in slight deleveraging over the next
12 months. Our base-case scenario assumes that management will remain prudent in its approach to funding
acquisitions and no material increases in debt, including for a potential dividend recapitalization.

Downside scenario
We could consider a negative rating action if DuBois experiences weaker-than-expected end-market demand such
that total leverage increases to near double-digit debt to EBITDA on a sustained basis. We could also consider a
downgrade if liquidity sources over uses materially weakens to less than 1.2x or, against our current expectations,
if the company completes a large debt-funded acquisition or dividend recapitalization.

Upside scenario
We could take a positive rating action within the next 12 months if the company's operating performance is
stronger than we expect, such that debt leverage remains below 6.0x on a sustained basis by improving EBITDA
margins 600 basis points. This could happen if DuBois grows through a mix of higher-margin acquisitions and
more profitable end markets. We would also need clarity that the company's financial policies would support credit
measures at these levels, after factoring in their growth initiatives.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 3

DuBois Chemicals Holdings Inc.

Assumptions

• Revenue growth, which we expect to be in the low
teen-digit percentages for 2019, driven by the
combination of organic growth in line with U.S. GDP
and acquisition growth. We expect low single-digit
percentage growth in 2020 driven by improved sales
of current and new customers through specialty
chemicals innovations and services in line with U.S.
GDP growth.

Key Metrics

2018A 2019E 2020E
Debt to EBITDA (x)*
FFO to total debt (%)*

~6

6-7

6-7

~10

6-10

6-10

*S&P Global Ratings' adjusted. A--Actual.
E--Estimated. FFO--Funds from operations.

• U.S. real GDP growth rate of 2.5% and 1.8% in 2019
and 2020, respectively.
• U.S. sales of light vehicles, which are expected to be
16.7 million and 16.5 million in 2019 and 2020,
respectively.
• Average EBITDA margins among specialty
chemicals direct peers.
• Capital spending of approximately $5 million-$10
million annually.

Base-case projections
As a result of these assumptions, including modest economic growth and the absence of large debt-funded shareholder
rewards, we expect the company's adjusted credit measures to remain above 6x over the next 12 months.

Company Description
DuBois provides consumable, value-added specialty cleaning chemical solutions and services for manufacturing
industrial processing, food processing cleaning/sanitizing, water treatment, and consumer car wash and fleet
transportation markets.

Business Risk: Weak
DuBois' geographic diversity is limited. It has a presence in niche market segments, and its lack of meaningful scale
leaves earnings vulnerable to unexpected demand and pricing shocks. The company derives primarily all revenues and
earnings from the U.S. Its market share is small, and in certain markets DuBois competes with larger, financially
stronger companies that could view those spaces as less attractive in terms of profitability, entry barriers, or market
size. Those companies are potential competitors if DuBois' niche markets become more attractive. These risk factors
are partially offset by the company's strong customer diversification despite its geographic concentration. We view
DuBois' EBITDA margins as average among specialty chemicals direct peers, due in part to its track record of
achieving targeted synergies through bolt-on acquisitions. Over the past few years, DuBois has grown its share in the

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 4

DuBois Chemicals Holdings Inc.

niche middle-market space via small tuck-in acquisitions and organically by cross-selling to its customer base. We
believe DuBois will continue to focus on growth through innovation and new product introductions.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
Under our base-case scenario, we expect U.S. GDP growth of 2.5% in 2019 and 1.8% in 2020, plus relatively flat
nonresidential construction over the next two years. Our assumption is for low teen-digit revenue growth in 2019
driven by a combination of a number of tuck-in acquisitions in the year and positive GDP growth, and for moderate
revenue growth between 3% and 4% in 2020 and beyond as a result of positive GDP growth, the company's
innovation, and new product introductions. We also assume margins will improve modestly in the future so that
DuBois' debt leverage, absent any leveraging acquisitions, will decrease to around 6x by the end of 2020.
DuBois' ownership by a financial sponsor and our expectations that debt leverage will remain above 5x remains
consistent with a highly leverage financial risk profile. Given the company's low capital expenditures requirements and
our expectations for modestly improving EBITDA, we expect the company to continue to generate solid free cash
flow.

Liquidity: Adequate
We expect the company's liquidity sources to exceed uses by at least 1.2x over the next year, and sources less uses to
remain positive even if EBITDA drops by 15%. Our liquidity assessment incorporates the negative impact of
qualitative factors, including our view of the company's ability to absorb high-impact, low-probability events without
the need for refinancing.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Moderate cash balances.

• Approximately $3 million in debt amortization
annually.

• Positive funds from operations of around $45
million-$60 million annually.
• Full availability under the company's revolving
credit facility.

• Modest working capital outflows.
• Modest capital spending.

Debt maturities
• The first-lien term loan matures on March 15, 2024.
• The second-lien term loan matures on March 15, 2025.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 5

DuBois Chemicals Holdings Inc.

Covenant Analysis
Compliance expectations
We expect a covenant-lite revolver that has a springing maximum first-lien net leverage ratio of 7.0x when the revolver
is drawn more than 40%. We do not foresee it triggering in the near term.

Environmental, Social, And Governance

We believe environmental and social factors present risks and opportunities for a specialty chemical producer such
as DuBois. We view Dubois' environmental and social risks as on par with other companies in the chemical
sectors. Our governance assessment is fair. Although we incorporate these assessments into our rating, they do not
have a material impact on credit quality at this time.
The company's focus is on continuous environmental improvements, such as minimizing shipping, storage, and
labor involved in chemical handling; conserving water; and reducing waste and energy use.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• Our simulated default scenario contemplates a default occurring in 2021 in the wake of a severe and protracted
economic recession, resulting in significantly depressed levels of industrial manufacturing spending, and a downturn
in the industrial manufacturing industry as a whole. In addition, if larger peers decide to operate in the niche
markets in which DuBois operates, it could have a significant negative impact on DuBois.
• We continue to value the company on a going-concern basis using a 5.5x multiple of projected emergence EBITDA,
which is consistent with our valuation of specialty chemical companies such as Aruba Investments Inc. and Zep Inc.

Simulated default assumptions
• Simulated year of default: 2021
• EBITDA at emergence: $59 million
• Implied enterprise valuation multiple: 5.5x

Simplified waterfall
• Net enterprise value (after 5% administrative costs): $310 million
• Valuation split (obligor/nonobligor): 100%/0%
• Secured First-lien debt claims: $447 million
• --Recovery expectation: 50% to 70% (rounded estimate: 65%)
• Estimated second-lien secured term loan claims: $208 million.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 6

DuBois Chemicals Holdings Inc.

• --Recovery expectation for second-lien secured credit facilities: 0%-10% (rounded estimate 0%)
Notes: Debt amounts include six months of accrued interest that we assume will be owed at default. Collateral value
includes asset pledges from obligors (after priority claims) plus equity pledges in nonobligors. We generally assume
usage of 85% for cash flow and 60% for asset-based lending revolvers at default.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B-/Stable/--

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Low
• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: bModifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: FS-6 (no additional impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)
Stand-alone credit profile : b-

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, July 1, 2019
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, April 1, 2019
• General Criteria: Methodology For Linking Long-Term And Short-Term Ratings, April 7, 2017
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate
Issuers, Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Specialty Chemicals Industry, Dec. 31, 2013

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 7

DuBois Chemicals Holdings Inc.

• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities, Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Business Risk Profile
Excellent

Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

Ratings Detail (As Of August 15, 2019)*
DuBois Chemicals Holdings Inc.
Issuer Credit Rating

B-/Stable/--

Issuer Credit Ratings History
27-Feb-2017

B-/Stable/--

Related Entities
DuBois Chemicals, Inc.
Senior Secured

B-

Senior Secured

CCC

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 8

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 9

