Fort Dearborn Holding Co. Inc.
Primary Credit Analyst:
James T Siahaan, CFA, New York (1) 212-438-3023; james.siahaan@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Henry Fukuchi, New York (1) 212-438-2023; henry.fukuchi@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 1

Fort Dearborn Holding Co. Inc.
Business Risk: FAIR

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b

b-

b-

B-/Negative/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key Strengths

Key Risks

Good market share of the North American label making industry.

High geographic concentration, as virtually all of its sales are
derived from North America.

Exposure to recession-resistant, consumer-focused end-markets like food,
beverage, paint, and personal care.

Limited scale of operations, with less than 20 manufacturing
facilities.
High leverage, with an adjusted-debt-to-EBITDA ratio of 8.8x as of
June 30, 2019.

Leverage remains very high, but is coming down. Fort Dearborn Holding Co. Inc. operates with very high leverage.
This was most problematic during late 2017 and early 2018, when weak performance at its core label business
(acquired in 2015) contributed to an adjusted-debt-to-EBITDA ratio spiking over 9.5x. Fort Dearborn's debt has risen,
as an add-on to its term loan that funded the NCL Graphic Specialties Inc. acquisition in early 2018 and as
lease-related obligations continued to increase. However, operational improvements are yielding benefits, and
trailing-12-months adjusted EBITDA margins are 100 basis points higher than the year before. Consequently, the
company's leverage ratio was 8.8x as of June 30, 2019.
As discretionary expenses roll off, earnings may rise. Fort Dearborn increased sales and administrative spending to
support its healthy pipeline of business, and also upped outlays pertaining to refurbishment-related capital
expenditures (capex). Many of its presses have been or will be rebuilt to higher standards, and productivity has
improved on those that completed the process. We don't believe these expenses will be ongoing, and their absence
could boost Fort Dearborn's earnings soon, provided that demand conditions for labels don't materially worsen.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 2

Fort Dearborn Holding Co. Inc.

Outlook: Negative

S&P Global Ratings' negative rating outlook on Fort Dearborn reflects the 1-in-3 chance that we could lower the
ratings due to a high adjusted-debt-to-EBITDA ratio. This ratio was 8.8x on June 30, 2019, compared with 9.7x the
year before. Management's operational improvement initiatives and contributions from recently acquired
businesses might allow it to restore credit measures to more appropriate levels for the rating, but the company may
have to realize these benefits soon, as slowing demand for labels could curtail progress.

Downside scenario
We could lower the ratings if Fort Dearborn's free cash flow generation becomes consistently negative, rendering
its capital structure, which comprises mainly covenant-lite term loans, unsustainable. We believe its ability to
maintain adequate liquidity and access to revolver as critical for the ratings.

Upside scenario
We could revise Fort Dearborn's outlook to stable if it demonstrates progress in improving its credit measures, with
the adjusted-debt-to-EBITDA ratio strengthening to below 8.5x and consistently remaining there. Less likely, we
could raise our ratings if Fort Dearborn establishes a track record of disciplined financial policies and reduces
leverage by more than we expect in our base-case scenario, either by applying free cash flow to reduce its
prepayable term loan balances or by increasing EBITDA. However, the deleveraging for a one-notch upgrade
would need to be considerable, because we see an adjusted-debt-to-EBITDA ratio of 5x-6x as appropriate for a
modestly higher rating.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 3

Fort Dearborn Holding Co. Inc.

Assumptions

• Low-single-digit percentage revenue growth in 2019,
reflecting the strong growth in the pressure sensitive
and shrink-and-roll fed areas, offsetting slight
weakness in cut-and-stack, along with continued
share gains at top customers;
• Adjusted EBITDA margins exceeding 16% in 2019
and improving modestly thereafter on operational
improvement initiatives to reduce labor, material,
and procurement costs, including corporate
centralization efforts and software-assisted supply
chain management;

Key Metrics

2018A
Adj. EBITDA margin(%)

15.1

2019E

2020E

16-17 16.4-17.2

Debt to EBITDA (x)

9.3 8.6-8.9

FFO to debt (%)

2.9

4-6

4.5-6

(0.5)

(2-6)

4-6

FOCF to debt (%)

8.4-8.7

A--Actual. E--Estimate. FFO--Funds from operations.
FOCF--Free operating cash flow.

• Capex increasing in 2019 to around $25 million,
normalizing to $15 million-$20 million from 2020;
• Free operating cash flow staying negative in 2019,
$5 million, but becoming positive in 2020 as capital
spending subsides; and
• No large outlays for transformative acquisitions.

Company Description
Fort Dearborn manufactures decorative product labels to a wide variety of end markets that include food, beverages,
wine and spirits, consumer products, and paint. The company has 17 manufacturing facilities throughout the U.S. and
Canada.

Business Risk: Fair
With $474 million in revenue for the 12 months ended June 30, 2019, Fort Dearborn is among the leading participants
in the more than $8 billion North American prime label production industry. It supplies a wide variety of label types,
including cut-and-stack (51% of sales), shrink sleeve/roll-fed (38%), and pressure sensitive (11%) labels across multiple
printing technologies. It serves various consumer-focused end markets that are generally less cyclical, including food
(which we estimate accounts for 40% of sales), beverage (31%), spirits (10%), paints and coatings (10%), household
and personal care (6%), and other (3%).
The competitive landscape is very fragmented, with more than 500 suppliers competing for market share. However, a
handful of large players command a sizable 25%-30% share of the market. Fort Dearborn is No. 3 in the prime label
market behind CCL Industries Inc. and LABL Inc. (formerly Multi-Color Corp.), though it enjoys the No. 1 or No. 2
position in its food, beverage, spirits, and coatings segments.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 4

Fort Dearborn Holding Co. Inc.

Traditional glue-applied, cut-and-stack labels continue to be bulk of Fort Dearborn's output. Although they are a
lower-cost product, its annual sales growth is very low at roughly 1% compared with other varieties. Customer
demand for aesthetically appealing shrink sleeve and pressure-sensitive labels has increased and may rise by 4%-6%
during the next few years. Demand for pressure-sensitive labels is estimated to be more than half of total label demand
in recent years, with cut-and-stack at less than one-fifth. Fort Dearborn increased its offerings in the higher-growth
label types through acquisitions. It maintains niche positions in the pressure-sensitive space, though its share remains
very small.
In addition, its customer concentration is somewhat high, as its top 10 account for 39% of revenue and its top
customer almost 6.5%. Consumer products companies, which account for most of Fort Dearborn's top 10 customers,
carry considerable purchasing power. Year-to-date sales as of June 30, 2019, increased by about 3.5%, with strong
growth in the roll-fed and pressure-sensitive segments offsetting slight weakness in cut-and-stack.
Fort Dearborn's profitability recovered as operational improvements yielded benefits. The majority of its sales are
under contract, and it has generally passed through increases in raw material costs to its customers. Despite the
low-growth trends for Fort Dearborn's cut-and-stack labels, this label type still has strategic advantages given the
company's good market share and scale, efficient plant operations, and long-standing customer relationships. It
continually seeks to improve profitability by diversifying its product mix and undertaking operational improvement
initiatives to reduce labor, material, and procurement costs at its lower performing plants. We expect adjusted
EBITDA margins to be 16%-17% and to improve modestly over the next couple of years.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
Fort Dearborn operates with high leverage and is a portfolio company of equity sponsor Advent International, which
acquired it in October 2016. We estimate Fort Dearborn's adjusted-debt-to-EBITDA ratio was 8.8x for the 12 months
ended June 30, 2019, and we expect it to remain around this year. The company may engage in debt-funded
acquisitions from time to time, which could either raise leverage or slow deleveraging.

Liquidity: Adequate
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Ample borrowing capacity under the company's $75
million cash flow revolving facility; and

• Debt amortization of roughly $5 million per year;

• Annual funds from operations between $25 million
and $30 million over the next 12 months.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

• Maintenance capex of about $8 million annually;
and
• Modest intrayear working capital needs.

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 5

Fort Dearborn Holding Co. Inc.

Debt maturities
Chart 1

Covenant Analysis
Compliance expectations
We don't expect the drawn amounts under Fort Dearborn's revolving facility to cause the covenant to apply very often;
though if it did, we expect the company's reported net leverage ratio would allow for appropriate headroom and
compliance.

Requirements
The revolving facility is subject to a springing first-lien net leverage covenant of 7.25x. The first- and second-lien term
loans were issued under a covenant-lite set of terms, and thus they are not subject to any financial maintenance
covenants.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• Our simulated default scenario assumes a payment default in 2019 stemming from a severe economic recession that
reduces demand for labels from Fort Dearborn's customers in food, beverage, spirits, paints, and personal care.
• As a result, its operations would be insufficient to cover fixed charges related to interest, working capital, and capital
outlays. Eventually, liquidity and capital resources could be strained to the point it could not operate absent a
bankruptcy filing.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 6

Fort Dearborn Holding Co. Inc.

Simulated default assumptions
• Simulated year of default: 2021
• EBITDA at emergence: $66 million
• EBITDA multiple: 5x
• Gross enterprise value: $332 million

Simplified waterfall
• Net enterprise value (after 5% administrative costs): $315 million
• Valuation split in % (obligors/nonobligors): 100/0
• Value available to first-lien debt: $315 million
• Secured first-lien debt claims: $566 million
• --Recovery expectations: 50%-70% (rounded estimate: 55%)
• Secured second-lien debt claims: $151 million
• --Recovery expectations: 0%-10% (rounded estimate: 0%)

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B-/Negative/--

Business risk: Fair

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Fair
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: b
Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: FS-6 (no additional impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Negative (-1 notch)
Stand-alone credit profile : b-

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 7

Fort Dearborn Holding Co. Inc.

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, July 1, 2019
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, April 1, 2019
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Capital Goods Industry, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

Fair

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Business Risk Profile
Excellent
Strong
Satisfactory

Ratings Detail (As Of September 25, 2019)*
Fort Dearborn Holding Company Inc.
Issuer Credit Rating

B-/Negative/--

Senior Secured

B-

Senior Secured

CCC

Issuer Credit Ratings History
24-Sep-2018

B-/Negative/--

21-Sep-2016

B-/Stable/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 8

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 9

