Novem Group GmbH
Primary Credit Analyst:
Margaux Pery, Paris (33)1-4420-7335; margaux.pery@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Anna Stegert, Frankfurt (49) 69-33-999-128; anna.stegert@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 16, 2019 1

Novem Group GmbH
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

b+

b+

b+

Financial Risk: AGGRESSIVE
Highly leveraged

B+/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key Strengths

Key Risks

Global leader in high-end decorative trim elements for premium
cars' interiors, with an estimated market share of above 40%.

High customer concentration reflective of premium original equipment
manufacturer (OEM) market, with top-two customers accounting for about
two-thirds of sales.

Above-average EBITDA margin for the industry, in the high
teens.

Operates in a cyclical and competitive industry.

Low capital expenditure (capex) for the next two years will
support free cash flow generation.

Competes with larger players with stronger financial health.

High customer concentration is a key credit risk. Novem Group GmhH relies on two customers for about two-thirds of
its sales. This is a key credit risk because lower production volumes from these producers due to factors such as
softening consumer demand, could cause earnings volatility.
Novem's EBITDA margin is above the industry average. With an EBITDA margin in the high teens, Novem's
profitability ranks above the industry average. This reflects Novem's efforts to increase the proportion of employees in
low cost countries such as Mexico, Slovenia, or Czech Republic. It also reflects the high utilization rates in most of
Novem's plants and the company's ability to control its costs and its scrappage rates.
S&P Global Ratings expects credit metrics will remain stable. We expect Novem's credit metrics will remain broadly
stable over the next two years based on our assumption of modest organic growth fueled by its exposure to premium
cars sales, continued efficiency gains offsetting contractual price reductions, and lower capex needs. Current capacity
should be sufficient to cover the company's needs.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 16, 2019 2

Novem Group GmbH

Outlook: Stable

The stable outlook reflects our expectations than Novem will maintain its EBITDA margin in the high teens over
the next 12 months, despite the weakening auto market. In addition, we expect the company to sustain S&P Global
Ratings-adjusted debt to EBITDA of around 3.0x-3.5x and free operating cash flow (FOCF) to debt of about 10%.

Downside scenario
We could lower our ratings on Novem if its funds from operations (FFO) to debt decreased to below 12% or if its
debt to EBITDA increased toward 4.5x. A large debt-financed acquisition or additional dividend recapitalization
could also lead to a negative rating action.

Upside scenario
We could raise our ratings on Novem if it significantly decreased its customer concentration and extended its
product offering, while maintaining EBITDA margin in the high teens and its FFO to debt near 20%.

Our Base-Case Scenario
Assumptions

• Global real GDP growth of about 3.3% in 2019,
down from 3.8% in 2018, with the U.S. at 2.5% in
2019 from 2.9% in 2018; Europe at 1.3% in 2019
from 2.2% in 2018; and China at 6.2% in 2019 from
6.6% in 2018.
• Net sales up by 2%, benefiting from Novem's
positioning on premium cars, which should enable
the company to outperform the market.
• EBITDA margin to remain broadly stable in the high
teens.

Key Metrics

2019a*

2020e

2021e

EBITDA margin (%)

High teens High teens High teens

FFO to debt (%)

20

20

20

Debt to EBITDA (x)

3.4

3-3.5

3-3.5

Note: All figures are S&P Global Ratings adjusted. All
dates refer to fiscal year ending March 31. a--Actual.
e--Estimate. FFO--Funds from operations. *Pro forma
the transaction.

• Lower capex of about €20 million-€30 million,
compared with €39 million in fiscal year 2019 (fiscal
year ends March 31, 2019) because the company
has completed its major investment programs.
• No dividends and no acquisitions.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 16, 2019 3

Novem Group GmbH

Base-case projections
We expect that Novem will outperform the auto market in revenue terms. Thanks to its positioning on premium autos,
we expect that Novem will increase its revenue above the market rate. Overall, we forecast growth in net sales of
about 2% for fiscal 2020. The main risk to our assumption could come from weaker-than-expected sales from key
customers given the challenging market environment and Novem's large exposure to these automaker companies.
Novem's EBITDA margin is stable thanks to its cost-efficient industrial footprint. Despite its high-end positioning,
Novem's customers require prices declines every year for existing platforms, as is typical in the industry. Thanks to its
cost-efficient industrial footprint, we assume that Novem will be able to offset these prices declines through efficiency
gains and will be able to maintain an above-average EBITDA margin for the industry in fiscal 2020.
We expect decreasing capex needs will support free cash flow generation. Novem will reduce its capex investments in
the next two years as it has already completed its major investment programs with the opening of new plants in
Mexico and China. We therefore forecast that Novem will generate sizable positive FOCF over the next two years.

Company Description
Novem designs, manufactures, and supplies decorative interior trim elements to premium original equipment
manufacturers such as Daimler or BMW. For the 12 months to March 2019, its net sales amounted to about €705
million and it had about 6,300 employees.
Bregal, an investment business of Swiss COFRA Holding AG, which was established to consolidate and manage direct
investments of the Brenninkmeijer family, acquired Novem in 2011. It holds about 86% of the company's equity, while
management holds the remaining stake.

Business Risk: Weak
We expect that Novem will sustain its current market position as a leading supplier in the niche market of high-end
decorative trim elements for the interior of premium cars.
Novem operates in the competitive and cyclical auto market with no presence in aftermarket, which we typically see
as more stable. Nevertheless, its exposure to premium cars provides slightly better growth prospects than the overall
new cars market.
Novem could be vulnerable to product quality and any attempt by larger competitors to enter the niche market.
However, it should be more difficult for a new entrant given the complexity of processes and long-standing customer
relationships.

Financial Risk: Aggressive
Novem Group used the proceeds of the €400 million notes and €38 million of cash from balance sheet for shareholders
returns. As part of the transaction, Car Interior Design, the parent company of Novem Group GmbH, received a
shareholder loan. We exclude this loan from our credit metrics because it qualifies for equity treatment based on the
documentation we have reviewed.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 16, 2019 4

Novem Group GmbH

We believe that the shareholders will pursue a conservative financial policy with target leverage remaining below
opening gross leverage of about 2.7x (equivalent to about 3.5x adjusted debt to EBITDA). We incorporate a degree of
cushion due to our perception of the financial sponsor ownership. As a result, we do not net cash from gross financial
debt. The notes documentation includes a specified change of control clause under which the noteholders cannot put
the notes if consolidated net debt to EBITDA is below 2.5x (which was already the case at launch). The company also
has some headroom to raise additional secured debt for acquisitions because its fixed-charge coverage ratio is well
above 2.0x, subject to the fixed-charge coverage ratio being at the same level before and after the acquisition. We note
that the company could also raise additional unsecured debt based on its current fixed-charge coverage ratio.
Our adjustments to Novem's reported debt mainly include factoring liabilities, operating leases, and pension liabilities.

Liquidity: Adequate
We believe that Novem has adequate sources of liquidity to cover its needs over fiscal 2020, even if EBITDA declines
unexpectedly. Even though the ratio of liquidity sources over needs exceed 1.5x, our assessment of adequate liquidity
reflects the lack of track record of Novem's high standing in credit markets in comparison with larger auto suppliers
such as Faurecia.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

Our estimate of Novem's principal liquidity sources,
pro forma the senior secured debt issuance, include:

This compares with our estimate of the company's
principal liquidity uses for the same period, which are:

• Cash totaling about €59 million;

• Annual capex of about €20 million-€30 million; and

• Full availability under the €75 million revolving
credit facility (RCF) due 2023; and

• About €15 million-€20 million of working
capital-related outflows.

• Our estimate for FFO of about €90 million-€95
million over the 12 months from March 31, 2019.

Debt maturities
As of March 31, 2019 (pro forma the transaction), Novem's debt maturities were as follows:
• 2024: €400 million.
• The €75 million super senior RCF which matures in 2023 is expected to remain undrawn.

Covenant Analysis
The RCF is subject to a springing covenant (net consolidated leverage of 4.25x) that is tested when drawings exceed
35%. The RCF was undrawn at closing of the transaction.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 16, 2019 5

Novem Group GmbH

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• Novem's €400 million senior secured floating rate notes are rated 'B+' with a '3' recovery rating. The recovery
prospects are constrained by the super senior ranking of the RCF and by factoring liabilities that we consider as
priority liabilities.
• The company's €75 million super senior RCF has a 'BB' issue rating with a '1' recovery rating. The recovery
prospects are supported by the first ranking status of the RCF.
• Under our simulated default scenario, we assume a payment default in 2023 due to a combination of the following
factors: production cuts at one or more of Novem's major customers, a sustained economic downturn that reduces
customer demand for new automobiles, and intense pricing pressure resulting from the competitive actions of other
auto suppliers and/or raw material vendors.
• We value Novem as a going concern reflecting its attractive industrial footprint and its know-how in complex
manufacturing processes for the supply of high-end decorative trim elements.

Simulated default assumptions
• Year of default: 2023
• Jurisdiction: Germany
• EBITDA at emergence: €73 million
• Enterprise value (EV) multiple: 5x
• An 85% draw under the RCF at default.
• Administrative costs of 5% of EV, which is our standard assumption for the auto supplier sector.

Simplified waterfall
• Gross EV: €366 million
• Net EV: €348 million
• Priority liabilities: €20 million
• Estimated super senior debt claims: €66 million*
• Recovery expectations: 90%-100% (rounded estimate 95%)
• Estimated senior secured debt claims: €415 million*
• Recovery expectations: 50%-70% (rounded estimate 60%)
*All debt includes six months of prepetition interest.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 16, 2019 6

Novem Group GmbH

B+/Stable/--

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: Low
• Industry risk: Moderately high
• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Aggressive

• Cash flow/Leverage: Aggressive
Anchor: b+
Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: FS-5 (no additional impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)
Stand-alone credit profile : b+

Related Criteria
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, April 1, 2019
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria | Corporates | Recovery: Methodology: Jurisdiction Ranking Assessments, Jan. 20, 2016
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate
Issuers, Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - General: The Treatment Of Non-Common Equity Financing In Nonfinancial Corporate
Entities, April 29, 2014
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria | Corporates | Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Auto Suppliers Industry, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 16, 2019 7

Novem Group GmbH

Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Business Risk Profile

Minimal

Excellent

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

Weak

bb+

Vulnerable

bb-

Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly leveraged

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

bbb

bb+

bb

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bb+

bb

bb-

b

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Ratings Detail (As Of September 16, 2019)*
Novem Group GmbH
Issuer Credit Rating

B+/Stable/--

Senior Secured

B+

Senior Secured

BB

Issuer Credit Ratings History
29-Jul-2019

B+/Stable/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

Additional Contact:
Industrial Ratings Europe; Corporate_Admin_London@spglobal.com

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 16, 2019 8

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 16, 2019 9

