Baffinland Iron Mines Corp.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Phalguni Adalja, CFA, Toronto + 1 (416) 507 3212; phalguni.adalja@spglobal.com
Secondary Contacts:
Jarrett Bilous, Toronto (1) 416-507-2593; jarrett.bilous@spglobal.com
Nicole Jiang, Toronto + 1 (416) 507 3228; nicole.jiang@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 1

Baffinland Iron Mines Corp.
Business Risk: VULNERABLE

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b-

b-

b-

B-/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key strengths

Key risks

High reserve grades at Mary River mine earns price
premium.

Limited operating diversity, with exclusive reliance on Mary River mine for cash flow
generation.

Long reserve life provides production visibility.

Credit measures highly sensitive to iron ore price fluctuations given the company's
single-commodity focus and small scale of production.

Phase 3 expansion will enhance capacity and should
materially reduce unit costs.

Execution risk and potentially higher leverage and funding risk related to its
capital-intensive Phase 3 expansion.

The company is in the midst of materially expanding its iron ore production capacity, which adds financial risk.
Baffinland Iron Mines Corp. exclusively mines iron ore from its Mary River operations in Nunavut, Canada, and is in
the process of materially expanding its production capacity. Its capital-intensive Phase 3 expansion includes rail line
extension (from mine to port) and port investments to increase shipment capacity from 5.4 million metric tons (mt) in
2018 to a targeted 18 million mt per year by 2022 (subject to permitting). S&P Global Ratings views the expansion as
aggressive given the large capital outlay (US$1.3 billion), potential for cost overruns, dependence on favorable iron ore
prices and premiums, and reliance on sponsor equity and getting the key permit amendments. In our view,
lower-than-expected cash flow generation during the expansion could increase external funding requirements and
negatively affect the sustainability of Baffinland's prospective capital structure.
Meaningful improvement in estimated earnings and cash flow generation this year will likely be followed by a modest
decline in 2020. Higher shipments from increased mined production, and stronger realized prices underpin the
expected improvement this year. Based mainly on our higher cash flow estimates, we expect Baffinland's adjusted
debt-to-EBITDA ratio to be in the high-3.0x area this year (4.9x in 2018). In 2020, we assume modestly lower realized
iron ore prices and incremental debt associated with Phase 3 funding will mainly result in leverage approaching 5x.
However, we estimate the company's EBITDA interest coverage to remain above 3x, which provides ample cushion at
the current rating.
Sponsor equity and debt financing is likely to cover funding shortfalls over the next two years, but only a portion is
committed. As the company continues to spend aggressively on the rail expansion, we expect Baffinland will incur free
cash flow deficits of about US$150 million-US$175 million in each of 2019 and 2020. The company plans to fund the
deficit by using internal cash flow generation, sponsor equity (US$180 million of committed capital available), and

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 2

Baffinland Iron Mines Corp.

preferred equity (additional US$50 million available under the purchase agreement as of date). It also intends to secure
project financing/capital leases as additional sources of financing. However, the inability to secure new debt financing
will likely require more equity capital (of which there is no assurance), or spending curtailment. There is also no
assurance that permitting will be received in a timely manner, given the issues surrounding ore dust and potential
impact on narwhals. In our view, these issues could delay the expansion but still require capital investments to
continue at heightened levels due the seasonal access to the mine's port.

Outlook: Stable

The stable outlook on Baffinland primarily reflects S&P Global Ratings' expectation that the company will generate
adjusted debt-to-EBITDA in the 3.5x-4.5x range in 2019 and 2020, with sufficient liquidity to fund its Phase 3
expansion. We believe the company will fund free cash flow deficits related to heightened development spending
with a combination of debt and equity injections from its owners. However, we also expect Baffinland's credit
measures and funding requirements to remain highly sensitive to modest sustained weakness in iron ore prices
relative to our assumptions.

Downside scenario
We could downgrade the company if, over the next 12 months, we expect liquidity to materially weaken beyond
our expectations, leading to interest coverage below 1.5x, and increased potential for a covenant breach under the
credit facility. In this scenario, we would consider the company's capital structure as unsustainable, most likely the
result of a material drop in benchmark (62%) iron ore prices and premiums, higher-than-expected operating costs,
or a higher-than-expected amount of debt used to fund Baffinland's expansion.

Upside scenario
An upgrade is unlikely over the next 12 months, given the funding and execution risks associated with Baffinland's
capital-intensive Phase 3 expansion. In addition, we expect the company's credit measures and liquidity to remain
highly sensitive to iron ore price fluctuations. However, we could consider an upgrade if adjusted debt-to-EBITDA
were to approach and remain at 3x. In this case, we would expect Baffinland to generate material free cash flows
that reduces funding risk associated with its growth strategy beyond 2019. In our view, this could result from a
significant increase in realized iron ore prices that meaningfully exceed our expectations for a protracted period.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 3

Baffinland Iron Mines Corp.

Assumptions

Key Metrics

• Iron ore production of about 6 million mts in 2019
and 2020, in line with company guidance

2018A
Debt-to-EBITDA

• Canadian/U.S.-dollar exchange rate assumptions of
about $1.34 in 2019 and $1.32 in 2020
• Iron ore price of US$90/mt for the rest of 2019 and
US$80/mt in 2020
• Premiums for the direct ship pellet (DSP) product of
about US$25/mt in 2019 and US$20/mt in 2020
(assuming the company realizes about 50% of the
Atlantic blast furnace pellet premium)

FFO-to-debt
FOCF-to-debt
EBITDA-to-interest

2019E

4.9x High 3.0x area
6%
(40%)
2.6x

About 20%

2020E
About 4.5x
About 15%

About (15%) About (10%)
About 4.0x

About 3.5x

FFO--Funds from operations. FOCF--Free operating
cash flow. A--Actual. E--Estimate.

• Direct operating cash costs of about US$40/mt area
in 2019 and moderately declining in 2020
• Capital expenditures (capex) of about
US$300-US$350million for each of 2019 and 2020 as
the company moves forward with its Phase 3
expansion plans
• Free cash flow deficit of US$150 million-US$175
million on average, in 2019 and 2020

Company Description
Baffinland produces iron ore at its wholly owned Mary River mine on northern Baffin Island, in the Nunavut Territory
of Canada. The company achieved commercial production in late 2015, and produced about 5.5 mt of iron ore in 2018.
Baffinland is majority owned by The Energy & Minerals Group and headquartered in Ontario, Canada.

Business Risk: Vulnerable
Our assessment of Baffinland's business risk profile as vulnerable reflects the company's single mine operation, small
scale of operations relative to that of other rated mining peers, and limited track record of operation. The company
derives all the production from its wholly owned Mary River mine, which exposes it to fluctuations in iron ore prices
and premiums (relative to lower-grade benchmark prices), as well as unforeseen production disruptions that can
materially impair operating results.
In our view, the risks associated with limited diversity are heightened by the mine's relatively early stage of operation,
having achieved commercial production in late 2015. We expect production to increase in 2019 to more than 6 mt, but
Baffinland's scale of operations remains below that of other rated peers, including Fortescue Metals Group Ltd.,
Cleveland-Cliffs Inc., and Ferrexpo plc. We believe the company's limited operating diversity and scale exacerbates its

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 4

Baffinland Iron Mines Corp.

vulnerability to market price and unit cost volatility. Moreover, in our view, improved visibility with respect to the
sustainability of Baffinland's operating costs will requires a longer track record of production, particularly given the
highly seasonal and remote Arctic location of the company's operations.
Our assessment also reflects the high reserve grades at the Mary River mine (typically 66% iron ore), which earn a
premium (grade adjustment) relative to benchmark prices. Its lump iron ore--also known as DSP--accounts for about
70% of the mine's production (balance is fines) and is sold as a replacement to pellets. Although DSP receives a lower
price premium than pellets, it is produced at a much lower cost due to the lack of required processing before shipping.
We estimate Baffinland's unit cash costs (including freight and overheads) at about US$65/mt in 2019--excluding costs
associated with stockpiled ore. In our view, a material improvement in the cost structure is unlikely until rail expansion
is completed, the timing of which is unknown because permits are required for development to commence.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
Our assessment of Baffinland's financial risk primarily reflects its relatively high prospective leverage and the risks
associated with its capital-intensive Phase 3 expansion. We expect the company will generate adjusted
debt-to-EBITDA in the 3.5x-4.5x range in 2019 and 2020, and maintain sufficient liquidity to fund its expansion.
However, iron ore prices have been historically volatile, and we take into account the sensitivity of the company's
credit measures and liquidity to relatively modest fluctuations in prices, premiums and input costs.
For example, we estimate that a $20 per pound (/lb) decline in average iron ore prices in 2019 relative to assumption
results in a 30% decline in EBITDA and leverage over 5.0x (an increase of about 1.5x). Current prices are just below
our assumption for the year, but we acknowledge the potential for significant volatility. For example, iron ore prices

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 5

Baffinland Iron Mines Corp.

peaked at about US$115/lb just over a month ago (July) to about US$80/lb currently.
Our assessment also incorporates the risks associated with the company's Phase 3 expansion. We believe debt in the
form of project financing/capital leases will be used to cover amounts not funded with internal cash flow generation,
and equity capital. As a result, we believe leverage will remain high over our forecast period given the likelihood for
higher debt levels without a corresponding increase in earnings and cash flow from the project in 2019 and 2020. In
our view, higher leverage amid a sustained period of price weakness and heightened capex pose a risk to the
sustainability of Baffinland's capital structure.

Liquidity: Less than adequate
We view liquidity as less than adequate, which mainly reflects qualitative factors that we do not view as sufficient for a
higher assessment. We expect sources of liquidity to exceed uses by over 2x in the next 12 months--an improvement
relative to last year. The increase in sources mainly reflects the higher estimated cash flows mainly linked to higher
iron ore prices. However, we believe the company has limited flexibility to cut project development-related capex,
particularly given seasonal access to the Mary River mine. As such, we view Baffinland to have limited ability to
absorb high-impact, low-probability events. Our assessment also reflects the company's limited track record with
respect to financial management.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Cash and equivalents of about US$60 million at June
30, 2019

• Annual sustaining capex of about $30 million
• Seasonal working capital of about US$50 million

• Funds from operations of above US$150 million
over the next 12 months

Debt maturities
Debt maturities are as follows:
• US$550 million 8.75% senior secured notes due July 2026
• A US$147.5 million revolving credit facility due May 2020

Covenant Analysis
The company is subject to maintaining a fixed-charge coverage ratio of 2x and debt-to-EBITDA (as calculated under
bank agreement) of less than 5x. The company is in compliance with these covenants. The leverage ratio steps down
to 3.5x for the quarter ending Dec. 31 2019, and thereafter; however, it is likely that the covenant will be loosened
given the delay in receiving permits.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 6

Baffinland Iron Mines Corp.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• We have updated our recovery analysis and the '4' recovery rating and 'B-' issue-level rating on the US$575 million
senior secured notes is unchanged. The '4' recovery rating reflects our expectation for average (30%-50%; rounded
estimate 30%) recovery in a default scenario.
• Our simulated default scenario, assumed in 2021, reflects deterioration in iron ore prices relative to our price
assumption that exhausts the company's liquidity and ability to fund fixed obligations, including interest and
maintenance capex.
• We assume the US$147.5 million revolving credit facility will be 85% draw at the time of default.
• We believe it is likely that Baffinland will incur additional debt as its Phase 3 expansion progresses, but this is not
incorporated into our default scenario (given the uncertainty regarding the amount and terms of incremental debt).

Simulated default assumptions
• Simulated year of default: 2021
• EBITDA at emergence: about US$70 million
• EBITDA multiple: 5x

Simplified waterfall
• Net enterprise value (after 5% administrative expenses): US$335 million
• Obligor/non obligor valuation split: 100%/0%
-----------------------------------------------------------• Estimated priority claims: About US$140 million
• Value available for first-lien claim: US$195 million
• Estimated first-lien claim: US$600 million
• --Recovery expectations: 30%-50% (rounded estimate: 30%)

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B-/Stable/--

Business risk: Vulnerable

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Moderately high
• Competitive position: Vulnerable

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 7

Baffinland Iron Mines Corp.

Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: bModifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: Neutral (no impact)
• Liquidity: Less than adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)

Related Criteria
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Metals And Mining Upstream Industry, Dec. 20, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Methodology For Standard & Poor's Metals And Mining Price Assumptions, Nov.
19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 8

Baffinland Iron Mines Corp.

Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Business Risk Profile
Excellent
Strong

Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

Satisfactory
Fair

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Ratings Detail (As Of September 6, 2019)*
Baffinland Iron Mines Corp.
Issuer Credit Rating

B-/Stable/--

Senior Secured

B-

Issuer Credit Ratings History
09-Dec-2016

B-/Stable/--

Related Entities
Baffinland Iron Mines LP
Senior Secured

B-

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 9

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 10

