Enterprise Holdings Inc.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Betsy R Snyder, CFA, New York (1) 212-438-7811; betsy.snyder@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Philip A Baggaley, CFA, New York (1) 212-438-7683; philip.baggaley@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Environmental, Social, And Governance
Issue Ratings - Subordination Risk Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 1

Enterprise Holdings Inc.
Business Risk: SATISFACTORY

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

bbb+

a-

a-

A-/Stable/A-2

Financial Risk: MODEST
Highly leveraged

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key Strengths

Key Risks

The largest global car rental company, with the leading position in off-airport car rentals

The price-competitive nature of on-airport car rentals

Strong management team that has performed well during periods of weaker demand

Substantial capital spending requirements

The ability to reduce capital spending if demand weakens

We anticipate that Enterprise will maintain its position as both the largest U.S. on-airport and
off-airport car renter.
Enterprise is the parent of the Enterprise, National, and Alamo car rental brands. It holds the leading position in both
the U.S. airport and the off-airport (replacement and local) segments of the car rental industry. Its U.S. on-airport
business has been growing because of both increased leisure airline traffic and its growth in market share. We expect
leisure travel to continue to increase. In addition, we expect Enterprise's off-airport business to benefit from the
continued need for replacement vehicles resulting from ongoing automobile recalls and adverse weather conditions
that cause vehicle accidents and hence the need to rent vehicles while cars are being repaired.

We expect Enterprise's credit metrics will remain relatively stable over the next two years.
We expect the company to finance its capital spending with free operating cash flow (FOCF) and a modest level of
incremental debt. We expect the company's operating performance to improve in 2019 from higher pricing on rentals
and continued strong used car prices, which result in higher gains on its vehicles upon their disposal and lower vehicle
expense. We also expect debt to increase modestly as the company uses debt and a combination of free cash flow for
capital spending and to pay dividends to its parent.

We anticipate Enterprise will continue to maintain its operating and financial advantage relative to
its major competitors Hertz and Avis Budget.
Enterprise's operating performance and balance sheet have historically been stronger than those of its major
competitors Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (parent of the Hertz, Dollar, and Thrifty brands) and Avis Budget Group Inc.
(parent of the Avis and Budget brands). We expect these trends to continue. As a privately held company, Enterprise

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 2

Enterprise Holdings Inc.

has more flexibility in terms of pricing. For example, it has a greater ability to reduce pricing, which has the potential to
impair its revenues and earnings, than either publicly held Hertz or Avis Budget. Both Hertz and Avis Budget have
suffered from pressure on pricing as well as higher vehicle costs than Enterprise, which has hurt their operating
performance, although both have begun to recover beginning in early 2019.
Enterprise also benefits from its off-airport operations, which account for approximately two-thirds of its revenues, are
typically higher margin than on-airport operations, and are less exposed to seasonality and cyclicality compared with
on-airport operations. In addition, unlike its competitors, Enterprise issues debt on an unsecured basis, which allows
the company more flexibility with its fleet financing and less refinancing risk, as its maturities are spread out over a
longer period (for example, some rated debt matures in 2046).

Outlook: Stable

The outlook reflects our expectation that the company's credit metrics will remain relatively consistent over the
next two years, with EBIT interest coverage of at least 7x and funds from operations (FFO) to debt in the low- to
mid-50% area.

Downside scenario
A downgrade is unlikely over the next two years. However, we could lower our rating if EBIT interest coverage
declined to below 3.5x and the FFO to debt ratio fell to below 30% on a sustained basis. This could be the result of
significantly less air travel, lower used car prices, or large debt-financed dividends.

Upside scenario
We are unlikely to raise our rating on Enterprise over the next two years given our view of the challenging auto
rental industry in which it participates and the company's already strong credit metrics, which we do not anticipate
will improve further.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 3

Enterprise Holdings Inc.

Assumptions

Key Metrics

• U.S. GDP growth of 2.5% in 2019 and 1.8% in 2020
• Global GDP growth of 3.3% in 2019 and 3.6% in
2020

2018A

2019E

2020E

About 7

About 7

About 7

About 50

Mid-40

Mid-40

EBIT interest coverage (x)

• Modest demand and price increases through 2020
• A moderate increase in fleet size, resulting in
moderate revenue growth

Debt to total capital (%)
FFO to debt (%)

Low- to mid-50 Low- to mid-50 Low- to mid-50

• Continued strong used car prices through 2020
• Relatively stable margins

Base-case projections
We expect relatively stable credit metrics over the next two years, with EBIT interest coverage remaining around 7x.
We also forecast modestly improving debt to capital in the mid-40% area from around 50% in 2019 and FFO to debt
around 50% over this period, due to the company's use of free cash flow to reduce debt.
Reduced airline traffic and lower used car prices are both risks to our forecast. However, we believe the company
would reduce capital spending to meet weaker demand, as it has in the past.

Company Description
Enterprise Holdings Inc. is the parent of the Enterprise, National, and Alamo car rental brands. It is the largest global
car renter, with about one-third of its revenues from on-airport and two-thirds from off-airport (local and replacement)
operations.

Business Risk: Satisfactory
Enterprise is the largest global car renter in terms of revenues. It generates around one-third of its revenues from
on-airport car rentals, which depend primarily on airline passenger traffic and are price competitive. Combined, the
three largest car renters account for about 95% of U.S. car rentals. The other two-thirds of Enterprise's revenues come
from off-airport (local and replacement) car rentals, in which Enterprise holds the largest market position by far. We
view this segment as more stable, with less exposure to seasonality and cyclicality and higher margins than on-airport
car rentals. Because renters rent these vehicles to replace vehicles that are being repaired following accidents or for
vehicle recalls, rental periods are typically longer, resulting in higher utilization. In addition, they are higher margin
because the operating expenses at the locations are typically lower than at airport locations.
We view on-airport car rentals as cyclical and closely tied to economic activity, resulting in more volatile demand.
However, car rental companies do have flexibility in sizing their fleets to meet customer demand by adding or
disposing vehicles as demand warrants. We expect continued growth in airline traffic over the next two years, which

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 4

Enterprise Holdings Inc.

should result in increased demand. However, over time, the car rental sector could face more competition from
ride-hailing companies such as Uber and Lyft. For now, car rental and ride hailing businesses have only limited overlap
because most rentals are for longer trips and/or a lengthier period. In addition, we see Enterprise as somewhat less
vulnerable to ride hailing companies because of its large off-airport business.
Table 1

Enterprise Holdings Inc.--Peer Comparison
Ratings as of Aug. 20, 2019

Avis Budget Group Inc.

Ryder System Inc.

Hertz Global Holdings Inc.

BB/Stable/--

BBB+/Stable/A-2

B+/Stable/--

(Mil. $)

--Year ended Dec. 31, 2018--

Revenue
EBITDA

9,124.0

8,409.2

9,504.0

Operating income

4,022.0

2,126.0

3,637.0

Funds from operations (FFO)
Interest expense
Cash interest paid
Cash flow from operations

959.5

641.7

565.6

3,317.5

2,000.1

2,829.4

668.5

194.5

855.6

651.5

177.8

781.6

Capital expenditure

3,236.5

1,783.8

2,863.4

Free operating cash flow (FOCF)

3,172.0

3,050.4

4,218.0

Discretionary cash flow (DCF)

64.5

(1,266.6)

(1,354.6)

(151.5)

(1,409.2)

(1,354.6)

615.0

68.1

1,127.0

15,962.9

7,432.7

17,273.3

414.0

2,910.3

1,120.0

EBITDA margin (%)

44.1

25.3

38.3

EBIT Margin (%)

10.4

7.4

6.4

Return on capital (%)

5.9

6.4

3.4

EBITDA interest coverage (x)

6.0

10.9

4.3

EBIT interest coverage (x)

1.4

3.2

0.7

FFO cash interest coverage (x)

6.1

12.2

4.6

Cash and short-term investments
Debt
Equity
Adjusted ratios

Debt/EBITDA (x)

4.0

3.5

4.7

Debt/debt and equity (%)

97.5

71.9

93.9

FFO/debt (%)

20.8

26.9

16.4

Cash flow from operations/debt (%)

20.3

24.0

16.6

0.4

(17.0)

(7.8)

(0.9)

(19.0)

(7.8)

FOCF/debt (%)
DCF/debt (%)

Enterprise is privately held and does not release its financial results publicly. We compare Enterprise to Avis Budget,
Hertz, and 'BBB+' rated truck lessor Ryder System Inc. Enterprise's credit metrics are stronger, by far, than any of
these peers'.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 5

Enterprise Holdings Inc.

Financial Risk: Modest
Financial summary
Enterprise has always had stronger metrics than its competitors Avis Budget and Hertz, and the gap has widened
recently, as both those companies have suffered from weaker operating performance and higher interest expense than
Enterprise, although these trends have improved modestly beginning in 2019. We expect relatively stable credit
metrics over the next two years. Despite capital spending to grow its fleet, we expect the company to finance this
growth internally with FOCF and a modest level of incremental debt. We expect the company's operating performance
to improve in 2019 due to higher pricing on car rentals and strong used car prices, which result in higher gains on its
vehicles upon their disposal and lower vehicle expense.

Liquidity: Strong
We assess Enterprise's liquidity as strong. We expect the company's sources of liquidity will be around 1.8x its uses
over the next 12 months. We also believe that Enterprise meets all other conditions for a strong assessment, including
ample cushion under its covenants, solid banking relationships, and generally prudent risk management.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Cash;

• Debt maturities;

• FFO of around $7 billion a year;

• Capital spending for new vehicles; and

• Availability under its credit facilities;

• Dividends.

• Proceeds from vehicle sales; and
• Potential unsecured debt issuance.

Covenant Analysis
Compliance expectations
The company's credit facilities are subject to a maximum debt to EBITDA covenant of 3.25 to 1. As of April 30, 2019,
the company was in compliance with this covenant, and we expect it to remain compliant going forward.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 6

Enterprise Holdings Inc.

Environmental, Social, And Governance

Environmental and social factors are not a material rating factor. The company has been increasing its percentage
of less fuel efficient larger rental vehicles such as SUVs due to customer demand. The company's business is
subject to adverse weather conditions, in that when these occur, it benefits from increased demand to cover
vehicles that need to be repaired or replaced. Having said that, the company is not subject to any significant
regulations. In addition, we believe the company has a favorable work culture as it is the largest entry level
employer of college graduates, with promotion opportunities. We view management and governance as strong,
reflecting senior management's greater longevity than its peers, and its expertise and experience during adverse
conditions. Despite continuing to be held by the founding Taylor family and the payment of dividends to its
shareholders, it has always managed its leverage conservatively.

Issue Ratings - Subordination Risk Analysis
Capital structure
• Enterprise's capital structure consists primarily of senior unsecured debt.

Analytical conclusions
• Its unsecured debt is rated 'A-', the same as the issuer credit rating, as no significant elements of subordination risk
are present in the capital structure.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
A-/Stable/A-2

Business risk: Satisfactory

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Satisfactory
Financial risk: Modest

• Cash flow/Leverage: Modest
Anchor: bbb+
Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 7

Enterprise Holdings Inc.

• Financial policy: Neutral (no impact)
• Liquidity: Strong (no impact)
• Management and governance: Strong (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Positive (+1 notch)
Stand-alone credit profile : bbb+

Related Criteria
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Reflecting Subordination Risk In Corporate Issue Ratings, Sept. 21, 2017
• General Criteria: Methodology For Linking Long-Term And Short-Term Ratings, April 7, 2017
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Operating Leasing Industry, Dec. 14, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Business Risk Profile

Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly leveraged

Excellent

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

Ratings Detail (As Of August 20, 2019)*
Enterprise Holdings Inc.
Issuer Credit Rating

A-/Stable/A-2

Issuer Credit Ratings History
20-Feb-2018

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

A-/Stable/A-2

AUGUST 20, 2019 8

Enterprise Holdings Inc.

Ratings Detail (As Of August 20, 2019)*(cont.)
23-Feb-2010

BBB+/Stable/A-2

31-Jul-2009

BBB/Positive/A-2

Related Entities
ERAC USA Finance LLC
Senior Unsecured

A-

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 9

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 10

