UFC Holdings LLC
Primary Credit Analyst:
Jing Li, New York + 1 (212) 438 1529; Jing.Li@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Emile J Courtney, CFA, New York (1) 212-438-7824; emile.courtney@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 1

UFC Holdings LLC
Business Risk: FAIR

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b

b

b

B/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key strengths

Key risks

Well-recognized brand and dominant market position in mixed martial arts
promotion.

Highly leveraged financial risk.

The new media rights agreement with ESPN will partially mitigate business
risks by replacing volatile event-driven pay-per-view revenue streams with a
fixed fee.

Unforeseen need to cancel or postpone events because of fighter
injuries, and the popularity cycle of athletes.

Ownership by Endeavor, which could provide some liquidity and operational
support.

Event risks such as fatal injuries, changes to the rules and
regulations governing the sport, and UFC's legal status in some
jurisdictions.
The media rights agreement with ESPN would require some fans
to adjust to an unfamiliar platform for pay-per-view bouts.

UFC's domestic media rights agreement with ESPN will likely reduce operating variability over time. UFC and ESPN
signed a media rights agreement in May 2018, which was further expanded in March 2019 to include pay-per-view
(PPV) events and a longer contract maturity. In return for fixed media rights fees, UFC exclusively distributes its PPV
and non-PPV bouts through ESPN linear and ESPN+ in the U.S. UFC and ESPN also extended the duration of the
media rights agreement they reached in May 2018 to seven years from five years. As a result, UFC estimates that
about 70% of total 2019 pro forma revenue will be contractually fixed, compared with less than 40% previously. We
believe this agreement will partially mitigate key business risks, such as the unforeseen need to cancel or postpone
events because of fighter injuries and the popularity cycle of athletes, by replacing volatile revenue from UFC's
event-driven PPV business model with a fixed-fee, contractually recurring revenue stream and providing multiyear
revenue visibility. The longer media rights agreement also enables UFC to plan over a longer time horizon while
focusing on securing international media rights fees and generating sponsorship dollars. We believe the ESPN
agreement likely reflects the growing acceptance and maturity of mixed martial arts (MMA) as a sport.
Although revenue risk is lessened over the next several years, a potential intermediate-term risk factor for UFC may be
that the new agreement creates a hurdle for viewership habits among fans who do not currently subscribe to ESPN+,
such as having to adjust to an unfamiliar platform. Viewers of PPV bouts would need to subscribe to ESPN+ over the
duration of the current contract, compared to previously when fans could purchase PPV bouts a la carte through a

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 2

UFC Holdings LLC

variety of cable subscriptions. The new agreement could reduce PPV purchases if some fans do not become ESPN+
subscribers.
We expect significant deleveraging in 2019. We expect UFC's domestic media rights contract with ESPN will
significantly increase revenue and EBITDA in 2019, improve UFC's financial risk, and substantially deleverage the
company from the very high 9x lease and preferred stock-adjusted debt to EBITDA that resulted when an
Endeavor-led investor consortium purchased the company in 2016. We also believe higher revenue from the new
contract will likely expand EBITDA margin, despite some operating investments and capital expenditures, because
UFC's scope and cost of content production will likely increase at a slower rate than revenue.
Financial risk will remain high despite deleveraging. Despite our expectation for deleveraging, we forecast lease and
preferred stock-adjusted debt to EBITDA of high-6x in 2019, which represents very high financial risk. Although the
preferred stock has no maturity date and carries a non-cash dividend to be paid in kind (PIK), we view the preferred
equity as debt-like because there is a call provision and a PIK rate of 13%, which is high compared to interest costs on
other funded debt. As a result, we do not believe the preferred equity stake is intended to be a permanent part of the
capital structure because the high PIK rate is an incentive for the company's owners to redeem it, possibly using
incremental debt. In addition, we expect UFC will have several large cash outflows in 2019, including earn-out
payments, redemptions of profit units, and distributions for parent tax liabilities. These cash outflows reduce UFC's
ability to repay debt.

Outlook: Stable

The stable outlook reflects our expectation that total lease- and preferred stock-adjusted debt to EBITDA will
improve to the high-6x area by fiscal year-end 2019, which is below our 7.5x downgrade threshold on the
company. We expect this will primarily be driven by growth in domestic media rights revenue, resulting in EBITDA
margin expansion and more stable cash flow.

Downside scenario
We could lower the rating if UFC's operations deteriorate and underperform our base-case expectations, causing
adjusted debt to EBITDA to stay above 7.5x. We could also lower the rating if adjusted EBITDA coverage of cash
interest expense decreases and remains below 2x.

Upside scenario
An upgrade is currently unlikely given UFC's high leverage. We could raise the rating if a combination of EBITDA
growth and debt reduction results in adjusted leverage sustained below 5.5x.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 3

UFC Holdings LLC

Assumptions

Key Metrics

• U.S. real GDP grows 2.2% in 2019 and 1.7% in 2020.
• U.S. real consumer spending increases 2.5% in 2019
and 2% in 2020.
• Total revenue increases about 20% in 2019, which
reflects content revenue growth driven by domestic
and international media rights contracts,
low-single-digit percent live event revenue growth
from assumed modest ticket price and attendance
growth, high-single-digit percent sponsorship
revenue growth supported by ESPN's distribution
platform, and high-single-digit percent consumer
products revenue growth.

2018A

2019E

2020E

Debt to EBITDA (x)

8.6 High-6 Mid-6 area

FFO to debt (%)

5.5

10

11

EBITDA to interest (x)

1.4

2

2

A--Actual. E--Estimated. FFO--Funds from operations.

• Adjusted EBITDA grows 20%-30% in 2019,
primarily driven by the ESPN domestic media rights
contract that results in some margin expansion. Our
forecast incorporates the $25 million management
fee to Endeavor Operating Co. LLC.
• Total revenue increases in the mid-single-digit
percent in 2020, which primarily reflects content
revenue growth driven by annual escalators in the
media rights contracts, modest growth in live event
revenue, and mid-single-digit percent growth in
sponsorship and consumer products revenue.
• Adjusted EBITDA grows in the low- to
mid-single-digit percent area in 2020, primarily
driven by annual escalators in the media rights
contracts.
• Our measure of adjusted debt to EBITDA
incorporates operating lease liabilities, the preferred
stock, which we view as debt-like, and certain
EBITDA add-backs. We also net cash against debt in
our measure.
• We expect UFC to pay $89 million in earn-out
payments to stakeholders and about $60 million to
redeem profit units and distribute cash for tax
purposes in 2019.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 4

UFC Holdings LLC

Company Description
UFC is the world's largest promoter of MMA as measured by revenue. The company produces events internationally
and generates revenue from media rights fees, live event production, sponsorships, and licensing of consumer
products. UFC is owned by a consortium of investors led by Endeavor.

Business Risk: Fair
UFC has a well-recognized brand and has a dominant market position in the promotion of MMA events. We believe
UFC's continued growth is aided by a multiyear domestic media rights agreement with ESPN, which provides revenue
visibility and relatively high-margin cash flows. Over the medium term, we believe increasing broadcast agreement
fees in the U.S. and abroad will drive TV broadcasting revenue to become a larger source of total revenue and
EBITDA. These long-term television contracts are a more stable revenue stream than PPV viewership or
ticketing-based revenues, and we view the shift toward more stable revenue sources as a positive long-term credit
factor.
We believe management recognizes that building UFC's talent pipeline is an ongoing risk factor to the company's
long-term business model. While UFC benefits from a strong fan base, we believe it needs to continue developing
fighters who appeal to its 18- to 34-year-old target demographic. This is because the company's business model is
primarily event-driven and could be significantly affected by an event cancellation or injuries to marquee fighters. The
company has adopted some strategies that we believe will partially mitigate that volatility in future periods. These
include marketing multiple fights at events and planning back-up matches and fighters in the event of injuries, among
other remedial training and safety actions to lessen their frequency and severity.
UFC also needs to preserve the current regulatory acceptance of the sport to maintain its competitive advantage.
Changes to the rules and regulations governing the sport and its legal status in some jurisdictions, particularly in light
of a potential fatal injury, could significantly affect UFC's financial performance and long-term viability. Conversely,
New York State's sanctioning of MMA in 2016 provided the company access to a lucrative live events market and
related commercial opportunities.
We believe there is some risk that UFC could produce too much content for distribution and inadvertently dilute
viewership across multiple distribution channels and demand for its marquee fights. However, this risk will probably be
partly mitigated over the next several years by locking in sizable contractual revenue streams with ESPN. By
broadening consumer exposure to the sport--which could increase interest--the ESPN contract could provide UFC with
another way to boost its talent pipeline.
Endeavor, the parent company of operating subsidiary WME IMG, controls and owns a majority stake in UFC. WME
IMG has a management agreement with UFC and receives $25 million annually in management fees. There are other
significant minority equity investors, including Silver Lake Partners and KKR & Co. L.P., which do not have a
controlling position. We believe UFC is strategically important to Endeavor, and that Endeavor and other minority
investors may offer some modest temporary support to UFC if it unexpectedly needs liquidity. In addition, we view

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 5

UFC Holdings LLC

operational support by WME IMG favorably because it could drive additional revenue opportunities in events and
sponsorship arrangements. However, we do not believe UFC is integral to enough to Endeavor's identity and future
strategy to warrant a strong, long-term commitment of support from Endeavor if UFC encounters structural financial
difficulty.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
We forecast total lease- and preferred stock-adjusted debt to EBITDA of high-6x in 2019, improving to the mid-6x area
in 2020. We expect EBITDA coverage of interest expense to be about 2x through 2020. The high leverage is partly
offset by relatively good EBITDA coverage of cash interest expense of about 3x in 2019 and mid-3x in 2020, and our
expectation the company will have adequate liquidity.

Liquidity: Adequate
UFC has an adequate liquidity profile. We expect liquidity sources over the next 12-24 months to exceed uses by at
least 1.2x. We believe net liquidity sources would remain positive even if EBITDA declines by 15%. We believe UFC
has sound banking relationships, as evidenced by its recent success completing an incremental debt issuance.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Cash balances of $183 million as of June 30, 2019.

• Regularly scheduled debt amortization under the
first-lien term loan.

• Full availability under the $162.5 million revolving
credit facility.
• Cash flow from operations above $175 million in
2019.

• Capital expenditures of about $30 million-$40
million.
• Cash distributions and payments for tax-related
purposes, earn-out payments to shareholders, and
equity redemptions of about $150 million in 2019.

Covenant Analysis
The revolving credit facility has a springing first-lien leverage covenant of 6.5x, which is triggered when the revolver is
drawn more than 35%. We expect UFC to be compliant with this covenant over our forecast period.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• The issue-level rating on UFC Holdings LLC's first-lien term loan and revolving credit facility is 'B+'. The '2'
recovery rating indicates our expectation for substantial recovery (70%-90%; rounded estimate: 70%) of principal in
the event of a payment default.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 6

UFC Holdings LLC

• Our simulated default scenario contemplates a payment default occurring in 2022 due to a substantial decline in
UFC's cash flow because of a combination of factors. These factors could include an inability to meet minimum
event requirements related to the ESPN media rights agreements, poorly timed production costs and investments,
leveraging cash distributions to shareholders, a failure to retain or recruit key performers, greater competition from
new entrants or alternative sports categories, and unsuccessful new business ventures.
• We assume UFC would reorganize following a default and used an emergence EBITDA multiple of 6.5x to value the
company.

Simulated default assumptions
• Year of default: 2022
• EBITDA at emergence: $244 million
• EBITDA multiple: 6.5x
• Cash flow revolver: 85% drawn at default

Simplified waterfall
• Net recovery value (after 5% administrative expense): $1.51 billion
• Obligor/nonobligor valuation split: 100%/0%
• Estimated first-lien claims: $2.02 billion
• --Recovery range: 70%-90% (rounded estimate: 70%)
Note: All debt amounts include six months of prepetition interest.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B/Stable/--

Business risk: Fair

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Fair
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: b
Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral
• Capital structure: Neutral

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 7

UFC Holdings LLC

• Financial policy: Neutral
• Liquidity: Adequate
• Management and governance: Fair
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral
Stand-alone credit profile : b

Related Criteria
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, April 1, 2019
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate
Issuers, Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Leisure And Sports Industry, March 5, 2014
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Business Risk Profile
Excellent

Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

Fair

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Strong
Satisfactory

Ratings Detail (As Of August 20, 2019)*
UFC Holdings LLC
Issuer Credit Rating

B/Stable/--

Issuer Credit Ratings History
25-May-2018

B/Stable/--

22-Jul-2016

B/Negative/--

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 8

UFC Holdings LLC

Ratings Detail (As Of August 20, 2019)*(cont.)
Related Entities
Endeavor Operating Company LLC
Issuer Credit Rating

B/Stable/--

IMG Worldwide Holdings LLC
Senior Secured

B

William Morris Endeavor Entertainment, LLC
Senior Secured

B

WME IMG Holdings, LLC
Issuer Credit Rating

B/Stable/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 9

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 10

