Hurtigruten Group AS
Primary Credit Analyst:
Jebby J Jacob, London (44) 20-7176-7122; jebby.jacob@spglobal.com
Secondary Contacts:
Alex Roig, London + 44 20 7176 8599; Alex.Roig@spglobal.com
Natalia Goncharova, London + 44 20 7176 3018; natalia.goncharova@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Environmental, Social, And Governance
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 1

Hurtigruten Group AS
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b-

b-

b-

B-/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key Strengths

Key Risks

Good brand recognition supported by a long history in
the Norwegian coastal segment.

Highly leveraged capital structure, with risks of postponed deleveraging if the second
newbuild explorer vessel is delayed.

Potential for quick deleveraging by 2021 if the newbuilds
generate the forecast cash flows.

Limited diversification, with heavy concentration in the Norwegian market, as well as
orientation toward the premium segment.

Reliable revenue visibility, with over 50% of its capacity
booked a year in advance.

Significant capital expenditure (capex) for newbuild deliveries, ship refurbishments,
and scheduled liquefied natural gas (LNG) conversions.

Fleet ownership, with only two of its 15 vessels leased.

Cyclical nature of the lodging industry and the susceptibility of the travel and leisure
industry to global and financial events.

2019 will be a transitional year as Hurtigruten acquires two new cruise ships.Norwegian cruise ship operator
Hurtigruten Group AS will take delivery of MS Amundsen and MS Nansen in 2019 and incur additional debt financing
of about Norwegian krone (NOK) 2.5 billion (€260 million) to fund these purchases. Given these two vessels' launch
dates, the company's 2019 results will not fully reflect their contribution to earnings--particularly that of MS Nansen,
which is expected to be delivered only in the fourth quarter of 2019. Therefore, we expect credit metrics to be weak in
2019. However, leverage should reduce significantly from 2020 onwards, absent any adverse events.
An increased focus on explorer cruises should bolster operating margins.With the renewal of its contract with the
Norwegian government, from 2021, Hurtigruten will reduce the number of vessels dedicated to its coastal cruise
operations to seven from 11 and will shift the weight of its fleet toward the explorer segment. We expect this change to
be positive, as the group will benefit from higher average revenues per vessel, translating into higher operating margins
from the increased share of expedition cruises. The explorer segment generates average ticket prices of about
NOK5,500 per passenger night compared to average net ticket prices of about NOK2,300 in the coastal cruise
segment. On the other hand, such rapid capacity expansion brings the potential risk of declining occupancy rates in the
explorer segment in the medium to long term, from about 72% in 2018.
Ownership of the Kleven yard could result in additional indebtedness. Last year, due to financial difficulties at the
Kleven yard, Hurtigruten saw a delay in the delivery of its two new ships, which were expected to be delivered over
the course of 2018. Hurtigruten, along with its parent shareholders, acquired the yard in 2018 and provided financial
guarantees to the lenders of this yard. The rationale for the acquisition was to better control the construction of the

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 2

Hurtigruten Group AS

new vessels in order to reduce the risk of further delays. Hurtigruten's total contingent liability as a result of the
guarantees provided to Kleven's debt currently stands at NOK409 million and could reach a maximum of NOK500
million (or about €50 million), although it will expire on delivery of MS Nansen.
The cruise sector could face a risk of overcapacity in the next few years.The demand for cruise travel has shown strong
growth over the last few years, with some industry reports suggesting a global compound annual growth rate of around
5% between 2001 and 2017, outpacing supply growth over the same period. Encouraged by the favorable demand
trend, cruise operators have upsized their order books, and as a result supply growth rates are expected to increase to
around 6%-7% per year over the foreseeable future. This has sparked fear of oversupply among market participants, as
they consider that supply growth could overtake demand growth, potentially putting pressure on occupancy rates and
prices. In the event of a global recession, we could see a scenario of a sharp drop in demand further exacerbating these
overcapacity concerns.

Outlook: Stable

The stable outlook reflects our view that the strong advance bookings for the newbuilds, along with increased
occupancy rates on the existing ships, will enable the group to increase revenues and profitability, with adjusted
EBITDA margin reaching 24% by the end of 2020. This should allow Hurtigruten to deleverage and maintain
adjusted debt to EBITDA of below 7.0x. The stable outlook also incorporates our expectation that the group will
execute its explorer segment expansion strategy successfully, including the timely commissioning of its second
newbuild MS Nansen, while maintaining adequate liquidity.

Downside scenario
We could lower the ratings on Hurtigruten if we considered the group's capital structure unsustainable. About
NOK2.5 billion of additional debt will crystalize through FY2019 as a result of the delivery of the two newbuilds.
We could lower our ratings if the new vessels underperformed compared to our expectations, which could result in
prolonged elevated leverage, rendering the capital structure unsustainable. We could also take a negative rating
action if the group's liquidity were to weaken and become insufficient to cover the liquidity needs for LNG
conversion or ship refurbishment capex.

Upside scenario
While unlikely within the next 12 months, we could consider a positive rating action if the group improved its
earnings and profit margins beyond our base-case forecast, supporting stronger deleveraging from current levels,
and maintaining EBITDA interest coverage meaningfully and sustainably above 2.0x. For this scenario, besides
maintaining yields and increasing occupancy rates above 80%, Hurtigruten should benefit from favorable
developments in its cost base, namely port fees, bunker fuel for the explorer segment, and foreign currency
movements.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 3

Hurtigruten Group AS

Assumptions

• Revenue growth of about 7%-10% in 2019 on the
back of relatively strong growth of about 10% in
2018. We also expect revenue growth in excess of
20% in 2020, bolstered by the new vessels' full-year
contribution to earnings.
• Our revenue growth forecast is much higher than
our expected GDP growth in Hurtigruten's main
markets. This is largely supported by the launch of
MS Amusden, which launched its first commercial
cruise on July 5, 2019. Hurtigruten's customer base
is concentrated toward retirees from developed
countries who are affluent and have a high
propensity to spend. Additionally, growth in
prebooking in both the group's segments for 2019
underpins our assumptions for the existing fleet.

Key Metrics

2018A

2019E

2020E

Debt to EBITDA* (x)

7.9 8.5x-9.5x

6.0x-7.0x

FFO to debt* (%)

7.6

EBITDA cash int. coverage* (x)

2.0 4.0x-4.5x

~8-9% 10%-13%
4.5x-5.5x

*S&P Global Ratings-adjusted, mostly for operating
leases and charter commitments. A--Actual.
E--Estimate.

• Elevated advance booking levels, in line with those
shown over the last few years. We believe that the
group's historical advance booking cancellation rate
of below 1% will stay largely unchanged as the
customer pays a 20% upfront deposit. This provides
good visibility and confidence in our revenue
forecast for 2019. The group has a good track record
of meeting its revenue target (absent any
refurbishment and dry-docking delays). We also
forecast an increased revenue contribution during
the "shoulder" months either side of the busy
summer and winter seasons.
• S&P Global Ratings-adjusted EBITDA margins of
about 22% for 2019, slightly up from 21% in 2018.
We anticipate this trend to continue in 2020 with
expected adjusted EBITDA margins of about
24%-25%, driven by the improved profitability from
the new explorer vessels.
• Capex of NOK3.6 billion, of which NOK2.7 billion
relates to the delivery of the two newbuilds, about
NOK300 million will be spent on ship
refurbishments, and about NOK200 million will be
used as maintenance capex. Hurtigruten will use the
rest for LNG conversion projects and land-based
growth investments.
• Hurtigruten incurred external financing of €130
million at the delivery of MS Amundsen at the end
of the second quarter, and it will draw an additional

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 4

Hurtigruten Group AS

€130 million on the delivery of MS Nansen in
fourth-quarter 2019.
Based on these assumptions, we arrive at the following
credit measures:
• S&P Global Ratings-adjusted debt to EBITDA
temporarily increasing to 9.0-9.5x (7.7x excluding
shareholder loan) in 2019 (up from 7.9x in 2018) due
to the debt-funded payment for the delivery of the
two newbuilds, reducing toward 6.5x-7.0x in 2020
thanks to the contribution of the new assets to the
group's EBITDA; and
• Funds from operations (FFO) to debt of about
8%-9% in 2019, gradually increasing towards
10%-13% in 2020 and 13%-15% 2021.

Base-case projections
Revenue and EBITDA growth is dependent on the successful operation of two new vessels. We believe Hurtigruten will
exhibit annual revenue growth of about 7%-10% in 2019 and above 20% in 2020. This forecast depends heavily on the
timely delivery of two new vessels. Issues at Kleven yard had previously delayed the launch of these vessels, and while
MS Amundsen has recently been delivered and started sailing in July, we do not expect the second ship MS Fridtjof
Nansen to be operative until at least the first quarter of 2020.
We expect a decline in the company's exposure to bunker fuel prices due to conversions to hybrid technologies.
Hurtigruten's fleet is currently largely oil-powered and bunker fuel costs represent a material portion of the company's
cost structure. As a result, the group is exposed to both pricing risk and currency risk, as fuel prices are U.S.-dollar
denominated but Hurtigruten pays in Norwegian krone. Although Hurtigruten has taken an active approach to hedging
its fuel costs (generally hedged up to 36 months), we consider that in the long run the company could remain exposed
to long-term inflationary trends. However, we consider that this risk will be partially mitigated by the conversion to
LNG-based hybrid technologies in a significant proportion of its fleet over the next 12-18 months, as we expect these
to reduce fuel consumption and achieve higher fuel diversification. Nevertheless, even after the successful conversion
of seven of its vessels to hybrid power, Hurtigruten will likely remain somewhat exposed to long-term trends in oil and
LNG prices.

Company Description
Hurtigruten is a Norway-based cruise ship operator running a fleet of 14 vessels, which are dedicated to the company's
Coastal Cruises and Expeditions segments. The company also operates three year-round hotels in Svalbard, Norway.
The group reported revenues of NOK5.4 billion (equivalent to about €505 million) and EBITDA of NOK1.1 billion (or
about €99 million) in 2018, reflecting relatively smaller operations than global peers such as Royal Caribbean
(revenues of $9.5 billion and EBITDA of $2.9 billion) and Carnival (revenues of $18.9 billion and EBITDA of $5.7
billion) over the same period.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 5

Hurtigruten Group AS

Business Risk: Weak
Our view of Hurtigruten's business position is somewhat weaker than that of its larger peers (including Royal
Caribbean and Viking Cruises), as its small fleet size and its concentration to the Norwegian market expose the group
to a larger degree to event risk and potential volatility of profitability and cash flows. Furthermore, given the group's
brand and segment concentration, we consider its addressable market to be relatively smaller than many of its larger
competitors, which could limit opportunities for future growth.
We also consider that Hurtigruten has significant exposure to weather-related event risks. The group's operations are
focused in geographies that have a significantly higher risk of extreme weather conditions, such as the Antarctica, the
Arctic sea, or the Norwegian coast, among others.
Although the group postponed the launch of its two new expedition vessels (MS Roald Amundsen and MS Fridtjof
Nansen) to 2019, we consider Hurtigruten's track record of operating performance to be satisfactory, with sustained
revenue growth and stable, albeit comparatively low, EBITDA margins. Furthermore, thanks to its strong brand
reputation, Hurtigruten also benefits from good revenue visibility, with long booking windows compared to its larger
peers.
Hurtigruten has recently successfully renewed its existing agreement with the Norwegian government--which was
expiring in 2021--with more favorable terms, while extending their relationship until 2031. We view this as credit
positive, as it will provide some revenue stability (indexed contribution based on a price of NOK546 million in 2018)
over the 10-year period.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
Our adjusted debt to EBITDA for Hurtigruten was 7.9x in 2018, reflecting the group's highly leveraged capital structure
with about NOK9.1 billion of debt, including corporate term loan debt, finance leases, and shareholder loans.
Excluding shareholder loans, net debt to EBITDA reduced to 6.4x for the same period.
We expect leverage to remain high over the next 12 months as a result of the delivery of the two new expedition
vessels in 2019 and their limited EBITDA contribution, with MS Firdtjof Nansen only expected to be delivered in the
fourth quarter. These acquisitions will be financed with around NOK2.5 billion in new debt and operating cash flows,
as well as the €85 million revolving credit facility (undrawn as of June 30, 2019). Nevertheless, we expect the credit
metrics to improve from 2020, supported by the contribution of the two newbuilds as well as higher profitability
stemming from the redeployment of several vessels to the higher-margin expeditions segment in 2021.
Beside newbuild capex, the group will be refurbishing several of its vessels as well as focusing on the conversion of
most of its fleet into LNG-fueled engines. Our expectations is that the company will have to draw on its revolver to
finance these initiatives as we do not believe that its internal cash flow generation, as well as government incentives
related to the LNG conversion projects, will suffice.
Given the long booking windows and high levels of advance bookings, Hurtigruten benefits from a positive working

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 6

Hurtigruten Group AS

capital cycle. This is typical for the cruise sector and provides additional liquidity support during expansionary periods.
Hurtigruten was acquired by funds advised by TDR Capital in 2015, a European private equity firm with several leisure
investments. Under private equity ownership, Hurtigruten has not distributed any dividends or repurchased shares
since 2015. We do not anticipate any shareholder distributions over the foreseeable future.

Liquidity: Adequate
We view Hurtigruten's liquidity as adequate, as we consider that the outstanding cash balance, the availability under
the RCF, and positive operating cash flow generation will support the scheduled debt amortization, working capital
needs and planned capex over the next 12 months. Furthermore, after delivery of MS Amundsen in the second quarter
of 2019, the company has additional financing in place for the delivery of its second new build MS Nansen in the fourth
quarter.
Therefore, we calculate that liquidity sources will exceed liquidity needs by about 1.5x over the 12 months to June 30,
2020, and we expect sources to exceed uses even in the event of a 15% decline in our forecast EBITDA. For the
following 12-month period to June 30, 2021, we do see a scenario where the group's liquidity sources to uses ratio
could decline below 1.2x. That said, we do not anticipate any liquidity shortfalls over the next 24 months.
The company has also demonstrated sound banking relationships as it recently increased the size of its term loan by
NOK760 million. Therefore, and given the low level of expected debt amortization over the next year, we consider that
the group would be able to withstand high-impact, low-probability events with limited need for refinancing.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• At June 30, 2019, Hurtigruten had NOK455 million
of unrestricted cash on hand.

• Our assumption of intrayear working capital
outflows of around NOK150 million.

• Full availability under the €85 million revolving
credit facility, which matures in 2024.

• Scheduled debt maturities of NOK82 million,
including amortization of finance lease obligations.

• Our forecast of about NOK1,100 million of operating
cash flows, after expected interest and tax payments
and working capital movements.

• Our expectation of about NOK3.8 billion in capital
expenditures mostly related to the delivery of the
newbuilds, which will be funded by committed
financing of NOK2.6 billion.

• About NOK100 million in working capital inflows at
year-end.

• Minor share repurchases of about NOK9 million.

Debt maturities
• 2019: NOK82 million
• 2020: NOK242 million
• 2021: NOK244 million
• 2022: NOK246 million

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 7

Hurtigruten Group AS

• Thereafter: NOK8.7 billion

Covenant Analysis
Compliance expectations
We expect the group to have sufficient headroom under the springing RCF covenant over the next 12-24 months.

Requirements
The senior secured term loan is not subject to any maintenance financial covenants. However, the RCF includes one
maintenance covenant set at 7.7x net leverage, which is tested only when the RCF is drawn by more than 40%.

Environmental, Social, And Governance

Social and governance factors can play a material role in our analysis of Hurtigruten's credit quality. If left
unmanaged, safety risks such as engine room fires and other fatal catastrophes on cruise ships, whether with the
company or in the broader cruise industry, can lead to lower customer demand, declining net revenue yields,
increased cash flow volatility, and consequently weaker credit measures. This risk materialized earlier this year for
Viking, when one of its cruise ships was involved in a fatal collision with a tourist boat in the Danube.
Hurtigruten is taking major steps toward reducing its environmental impact by launching two new hybrid vessels in
2019, which will be the first of their kind in the cruise industry. Furthermore, the company is also investing
significant resources into converting several of its vessels to run on LNG and battery power, as part of its new
agreement with the Norwegian government. We believe these developments will help Hurtigruten reduce its
environmental footprint.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• The issue and recovery ratings on the €655 million senior term loan due 2025 and €85 million RCF due 2024 are 'B-'
and '3', respectively, reflecting comprehensive security and guaranty packages. The recovery rating reflects our view
of recovery prospects of 50%-70% (rounded estimate: 50%).
• Our simulated default scenario contemplates a payment default in 2021, attributable to cash flow declines from
existing ships and weaker-than-expected increases in cash flow from new ships in an environment of greater pricing
pressure and competition from larger operators.
• We use a combined enterprise value (EV) and discrete asset value (DAV) approach to value Hurtigruten given that
the company is financing its newbuilds with separate committed senior secured credit facilities (not rated) that we
expect to be drawn upon delivery of the ships.
• The lenders will not have access to the security of two new build vessels. These new vessels will provide security
solely for the benefit of export credit agency (ECA) loans and are held at Explorer II AS, a subsidiary of Hurtigruten

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 8

Hurtigruten Group AS

Group AS. Although Hurtigruten Group provides an unsecured guarantee to the lenders of these new builds, we
consider the value of these ships to fulfil the entire claim relating to ECA loans and not have claim on Hurtigruten
Group. We assume this new debt will rank pari passu to the new senior term loan despite claims under the
guarantees being unsecured in the restricted group.
• The rest of the fleet, with the exception of the two leased vessels, serves as collateral to the secured notes and RCF
as the ships in property are held at the Hurtigruten AS level, another ring-fenced subsidiary of the Hurtigruten
Group AS. Although we are valuing the group on a going-concern basis, we consider that the hard asset pledge
further protects the interests of the term loan and RCF lenders.
• We assume Hurtigruten's revolver is 85% drawn at default.

Simulated default assumptions
• Year of default: 2021
• Jurisdiction: Norway

Simplified waterfall
• Emergence EBITDA: NOK691 million (capex represents 4.0% of expected sales, cyclicality adjustment is 10% in
line with the specific industry subsegment)
• Multiple: 6.0x
• Gross recovery value: : NOK4,149 million
• Net recovery value for waterfall after admin expenses (5%): NOK3,942 million
• Estimated priority debt: Nil
• Remaining recovery value: NOK3,942 million
• Estimated senior secured debt claims: NOK7,243 million*
• Recovery range: 50-70% (rounded estimate 50%)
• Recovery rating: 3
*All debt amounts include six months' prepetition interest.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B-/Stable/--

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 9

Hurtigruten Group AS

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: bModifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: FS-6 (no additional impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)

Related Criteria
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - Recovery: Methodology: Jurisdiction Ranking Assessments, Jan. 20, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - General: The Treatment Of Non-Common Equity Financing In Nonfinancial Corporate
Entities, April 29, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Leisure And Sports Industry, March 5, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 10

Hurtigruten Group AS

Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Business Risk Profile
Excellent
Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

Ratings Detail (As Of September 6, 2019)*
Hurtigruten Group AS
Issuer Credit Rating

B-/Stable/--

Senior Secured

B-

Issuer Credit Ratings History
26-Apr-2017

B-/Stable/--

12-Apr-2016

B/Negative/--

14-Apr-2015

B/Stable/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

Additional Contact:
Industrial Ratings Europe; Corporate_Admin_London@spglobal.com

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 11

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 12

