SK HoldCo LLC
Primary Credit Analyst:
David Binns, CFA, New York (1) 212-438-3604; david.binns@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Nishit K Madlani, New York (1) 212-438-4070; nishit.madlani@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Environmental, Social, And Governance
Issue Ratings--Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 16, 2019 1

SK HoldCo LLC
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b-

b-

b-

B-/Negative/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key strengths

Key risks

Favorable relationships with leading insurers, requiring strong operating
metrics.

Narrow scope, scale, and diversity of operations, which focus on the
highly fragmented U.S. collision repair industry.

Historically, modest but consistent free cash flow (FCF) generation.
However, recent operating issues have reduced FCF.

High labor turnover and weaker operating metrics have weakened
same store sales and margins.
Excessive debt leverage and aggressive acquisition strategy given the
company's ownership by a financial sponsor.

EBITDA margins could remain under pressure in 2019 because of higher costs to implement a new IT system, worsening
parts margins, and higher carrier discounts, before improving in 2020. In the first half of 2019, gross margins were
lower partly because the company faced higher prices on parts from a new vendor. In addition, the company also
faced higher carrier discounts due to poor performance as the insurance companies are looking to cut costs and have
moved to performance-based pricing. In response to these issues, the company is implementing a new IT system and
centralizing estimates to improve cost-of-repair estimates. The cost to implement this system along with the
headwinds mentioned above will keep EBITDA margins low in 2019. As the new system is implemented in a majority
of shops by end of 2019, it will help provide better estimates and drive more repair versus replace work, which should
improve margins. Additionally, we expect organic revenue growth to improve and one-time costs to decline leading to
better margins from 2020.
High labor turnover at many of its stores continues to reduce both same-store sales and margins. High turnover has led
to less experienced technicians in the repair shops. This in turn has led to lower efficiency at the stores, which causes a
lower ranking in the algorithms that the insurance companies use to recommend a given store. Due to the lower
ranking, these underperforming stores get less business, which reduces same-store sales and margins. This is a vicious
cycle that management must break though their initiatives. Given recent results, we expect these problems to continue
through 2019 and the first half of 2020.
The company's aggressive acquisition strategy to gain scale in a fragmented market has not yet proven itself.The
company was focused on finding new targets to acquire, but it failed to address labor issues and maintain strong KPIs
needed to keep business with the insurance carriers. SK has not maintained margins, which has led to increased
leverage with forecasted debt to EBITDA of more than 10x in 2019. While the company has significantly reduced the

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 16, 2019 2

SK HoldCo LLC

pace of acquisitions, the high leverage used to quickly grow market share has left little room for operating errors. This
shows the risk involved when using a rapid debt-financed acquisition strategy.

Outlook: Negative

S&P Global Ratings' negative outlook on SK HoldCo LLC reflects what we see as a higher risk that same-store sales
will remain weak and margins will stay below expectations, which could cause negative cash flow for multiple
quarters, hurting liquidity.

Downside scenario
We could lower our rating on SK in the next 12 months if organic growth is unlikely to return to at least 2% and
margins do not improve from current levels. This could occur if underperformance in a number of its stores
persists, weakening insurer relationships. We could also consider downgrading the company if it is unable to
consistently generate positive free operating cash flow (FOCF) to debt of about 2% for multiple quarters, hurting its
liquidity, or if we feel the company cannot continue to employ an aggressive acquisition strategy without causing
its margins to decline (indicating an unsustainable capital structure).

Upside scenario
We could revise the outlook to stable if same-store sales growth returns to a meaningfully positive level, margins
improve toward historically higher levels (12%-13%), and the company sustainably generates FOCF to debt of at
least 2%-3%. This could occur if the company improves its operations and reduces costs while successfully
integrating its acquired shops and addressing inflated labor costs.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 16, 2019 3

SK HoldCo LLC

Assumptions

• The number of miles driven in the U.S. will continue
to increase slowly in conjunction with GDP, and the
amount of vehicles in service in the U.S. will remain
robust at more than 270 million.
• U.S. GDP growth slows down this year to 2.5% from
2.9% in 2018, and weakens further to 1.8% in 2020.
We estimate a 30%-35% risk of recession within the
next 12 months.

Key Metrics

2018A
EBITDA margin (%)

2019E

2020E

2021E

11.2 10.0-10.5 10.8-11.3 11.0-11.5

Debt to EBITDA (x)

9.7 10.0-10.5

8.8-9.3

8.2-8.7

FOCF/Debt (%)

8.4

1.0-3.0

2.0-4.0

2.0-5.0

A--Actual. E--Estimate. F--Forecast.

• Revenues grow by 4.0% in 2019 mainly due to 2.5%
organic growth and addition of stores through
combination of acquisitions and greenfields. For
2020 and 2021, we expect higher revenue growth of
6%-7% as we believe company will be able to grow
3%-4% organically from a combination of higher
market share and inflation in repair costs as well as
increase the pace of its acquisitions and greenfield
stores.
• Lower EBITDA margins at 10.2% in 2019 (compared
with 11.2% in 2018) because of lower carrier
discounts and worse parts margins and then
improve to 11.0% in 2020 as the company improves
its shop utilization and increase its repair versus
replace work.
• Capital expenditures (capex) will average 2% of
revenues over the next two years, a combination of
maintenance capex and investment in building new
shops.
• The company acquires only two stores in 2019 and
about five stores per year in 2020 and 2021 at an
estimated cost of $13.0 million-$16.0 million.
• No dividend payments to its financial sponsor
through 2021.

Base-case projections
• We expect SK HoldCo's debt/EBITDA will weaken in 2019 due to low EBITDA margins. Going forward, with
improvement in EBITDA, we expect debt/EBITDA will strengthen modestly.
• We expect FOCF/debt will remain below 5.0% despite $30 million benefit from Axalta's prepayment.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 16, 2019 4

SK HoldCo LLC

Company Description
SK operates light-vehicle collision-repair shops in the U.S. The company has 344 repair centers offering auto-body
repair, paint and refinishing, and glass repair and replacement. SK has grown through acquisitions, and the majority of
its revenue comes from insurance companies, which generally pay for the vehicle repairs.

Business Risk: Weak
SK continues to face operating issues that have caused margin erosion and weak same-store sales. The source of these
issues is a combination of high labor turnover, lower parts margins, and increasingly stringent operating metrics
required by the insurance industry. As a larger and centrally managed company, SK should be able to provide superior
service with strong operating metrics that will accrue more business from insurance carriers. However, in our view,
aggressive growth in recent years has led to less efficient operations. While the new management team is addressing
these issues, the success of these efforts will likely take more time.
The collision repair industry remains quite fragmented and though SK is a larger player, it does not have such scale
that it has strong bargaining power compared to its customers, the major insurance companies. We also believe the
company has a narrow scope of operations, limited scale, and lack of diversity since it operates in a limited number of
markets in the U.S. and does only collision repair.
Overall, we believe the fundamentals of the collision repair industry remain favorable. Steady increases in vehicle miles
traveled and a rise in the complexity of cars is leading to a higher amount of auto insurance claims. However, we will
continue to monitor the number of total losses as a percentage of claims. Insurance companies may find it cheaper to
pay for a new car or part rather than repair the old one.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
We believe SK's financial policies will remain aggressive given its concentrated ownership by financial sponsors, The
BlackStone Group and The Carlyle Group, which will likely preclude any significant debt reduction. The sponsors have
used a very aggressive amount of debt to grow the business. Now that the company faces operating issues, its credit
metrics will likely remain quite stressed over the next 12 months, even as the company reduces expansion capital.
We expect SK's debt to EBITDA will be 9.0x–11x and FOCF to total debt will be only 1%-4% for 2019 and 2020. We
expect a more disciplined approach toward acquisitions and capital spending, along with prudent working capital
management, will support a small amount of free cash flow in 2019-2021.

Liquidity: Adequate
We assess SK's liquidity as adequate, a key supporting factor for our rating. Our assessment incorporates the following
expectations and assumptions:

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 16, 2019 5

SK HoldCo LLC

• The company's liquidity sources, including cash and revolving credit facility availability, will be at least 1.2x its uses
over the next 12-18 months.
• The company's net liquidity sources will remain positive even if its EBITDA declines by more than 15%.

Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Availability of $92.2 million under the $100 million
revolving credit facility and $133.2 million of cash
and cash equivalents as of June 30, 2019.

• Capex of about $25.0 million-$30.0 million in 2019
and 2020.

• Funds from operations of $10 million-$15 million in
2019.

• Our assumption of no dividend payments to the
financial sponsors during 2019 or 2020.

Covenant Analysis
The senior secured facilities contain a springing maximum first-lien net leverage of 7.2x, tested at the end of any
quarter during which the amounts drawn exceed 30% of facility size. As of June 30, 2019, the company was in
compliance with its first-lien net leverage ratio. We do not expect the company to trigger the covenant in the next 12
months.

Environmental, Social, And Governance

The automotive industry is subject to increasingly stringent regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. For SK,
environmental risks are less critical than they are for OEMs or powertrain-focused Tier 1 suppliers.
Social factors do not play a major role but the company has had issues with high labor turnover, which has had a
negative impact on margins. This is due to a highly competitive labor market and a lack of repair work at certain
shops rather than a major dispute between the company and technicians.
Governance risks have declined as the company has pulled back on its aggressive acquisition strategy.

Issue Ratings--Recovery Analysis
• The issue-level ratings on SK's senior secured debt senior unsecured notes remain 'B' and 'CCC'.
• We valued the company on a going concern basis using a 5.5x multiple of our emergence EBITDA.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 16, 2019 6

SK HoldCo LLC

Key analytical factors
• Our simulated default scenario assumes a payment default in 2021 due to a combination of operational missteps
that weaken SK's relationships with its key insurance companies.
• Our scenario also assumes the company experiences increased pressure from insurance companies to reduce the
price of its aftermarket and replacement parts while new technologies significantly reduce the number of serious
collisions.

Simulated default assumptions
• Year of default: 2021
• EBITDA at emergence: $96 million
• Emergence multiple: 5.5x
• Jurisdiction: U.S.

Simplified waterfall
• Gross enterprise value: $530 million
• Administrative expenses: $27 million
• Net enterprise value: $503 million
• Priority claims: $0
• Secured first-lien debt claims: $681 million
• --Recovery expectations: 70%-90% (rounded estimate: 70%)
• Unsecured second-lien debt claims: $419 million
• --Recovery expectations: 0%-10% (rounded estimate: 0%)

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B-/Negative/--

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: bModifiers

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 16, 2019 7

SK HoldCo LLC

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: FS-6 (no additional impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)
Stand-alone credit profile : b-

Related Criteria
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Business And Consumer Services Industry, Nov. 19,
2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Business Risk Profile
Excellent

Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 16, 2019 8

SK HoldCo LLC

Ratings Detail (As Of September 16, 2019)*
SK HoldCo LLC
Issuer Credit Rating

B-/Negative/--

Issuer Credit Ratings History
22-Nov-2017

B-/Negative/--

11-Aug-2016

B-/Stable/--

09-Sep-2014

B/Stable/--

Related Entities
Midas Intermediate Holdco II Finance Inc.
Senior Unsecured

CCC

Midas Intermediate Holdco II LLC
Senior Secured

B

Senior Unsecured

CCC

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 16, 2019 9

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 16, 2019 10

