Screenvision, LLC
Primary Credit Analyst:
Scott E Zari, CFA, Chicago + 1 (312) 233 7079; scott.zari@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Rose Oberman, CFA, New York 212-438-0354; rose.oberman@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 1

Screenvision, LLC
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b

b

b

B/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key strengths

Key risks

Long-term contracts with its exhibitor
partners.

Reserved seating could lead to viewers taking their seats closer to show time, reducing the value
of earlier ad slots.
Revenue is exposed to the cyclicality of national advertising and volatile theater attendance.
Risk of leveraging transactions given limited track record with its current financial sponsor
ownership.

Screenvision's financial policy will be driven by its financial sponsor ownership.
Leverage is roughly 3.5x as of June 30, 2019, pro forma for a $20 million debt repayment executed on Sept. 10, 2019,
which we view as moderately high for a company of small scale with a niche business and a history of volatility in
financial performance and profitability. Additionally, the company has a limited track record in terms of financial
policy since Abry acquired a majority stake in June 2018. We believe there is a risk of re-leveraging to pursue
shareholder returns that is typical of a private equity strategy.

Screenvision has contractual agreements with 8 of the top 10 exhibitors and 13 of the top 20.
These contracts are exclusive (except for its agreement with AMC Entertainment Inc.) and provide significant barriers
to entry for new entrants. However, the switching costs at expiration are relatively low, placing an emphasis on the
company's ability to successfully renegotiate these contracts. The average remaining term of its exhibitor network is
eight years, a number skewed by its agreement with Carmike Cinemas Inc. (acquired by AMC) that runs through 2043.
We believe that the company's ongoing need to renegotiate these agreements create significant event risks, which may
be accompanied by negative working capital associated with large bonus payments to the exhibitors.

Changes in consumer behavior at the theater could reduce Screenvision's value to advertisers.
Theater advertising isn't exposed to the ad-skipping technology that hurts TV ad-viewing. However, changes in
theaters' operating strategies, such as reserved seating and placing bars in the theater lobby, may lead to customers
taking their seats closer to the published show time, which could reduce the number of viewers in their seats when
pre-show advertising is displayed. While there has not yet been a significant decline in pre-show ratings, this shift

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 2

Screenvision, LLC

could potentially affect Screenvision's performance because national advertisers pay the company based on a CPM
advertising pricing metric. In some cases, Screenvision has negotiated the rights to place advertising after the
scheduled show time, which is less likely to be affected by reserved seating and can be sold at a premium CPM.

Outlook: Stable

The stable outlook reflects S&P Global Ratings' expectation that leverage will decline to the mid-3x area over the
next 12 months due to a one-time pre-payment of its term loan and revenue growth in the low- to mid-single-digit
percentage area. However, we believe that risks associated with the loss of key customers over the next two years,
or shareholder-rewarding initiatives, could lead to leverage increasing above our forecast.

Downside scenario
We could lower the rating if the company's operating performance deteriorates due to the loss of key customers, or
if CPMs and utilization rates decline due to structural changes in theater operations, reducing the attractiveness of
in-theater advertising. This scenario would likely result in leverage increasing to the mid-5x area or above on a
sustained basis and free operating cash flow (FOCF) to debt declining below 5%. We could also lower the rating if
debt-financed shareholder rewarding initiatives lead to the same deterioration in credit metrics.

Upside scenario
While unlikely at this time, we could raise the rating if we believe the company will maintain leverage well below
4x, with minimal re-leveraging risks. This would likely require the company establishing a track record of
prioritizing deleveraging over shareholder-rewarding initiatives and committing to maintaining leverage at a lower
level.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 3

Screenvision, LLC

Assumptions

Key Metrics

• U.S. GDP growth of 2.3% in 2019 and 1.7% in 2020.
• Total revenue increases 4%-6% in 2019 due to
increased national advertising revenue related to a
strong second-half box office. We expect revenue
growth will slow to 1%-3% in 2020 due to a weaker
film slate and continued weakness in local
advertising offsetting growth in average CPMs due
to the revenue mix shifting more toward late
pre-show inventory, improved utilization, and an
increase in the amount of screens in its network.

2018A
EBITDA margin (%)

2019E

2020E

18.6 18.8-19.0 18.7-18.9

Debt/EBITDA (x)

4.3

3.4-3.6

3.3-3.5

FOCF/debt (%)

5.2

9-10

10.5-11

A--Actual. E—Estimate. FOCF—Free operating cash
flow.

• Total costs will increase less than revenue in 2019 as
theater commissions paid as minimum guarantees
based on attendance will be flat as we expect strong
attendance over the second half of the year to result
in total 2019 attendance in-line with 2018.
Commissions paid on a revenue share basis will
increase in-line with revenue and there will be
inflationary increases in fixed costs. We expect costs
to grow roughly in-line with revenue in 2020 as
marginally lower guarantee payments are offset by
growth in fixed costs.
• EBITDA margin will improve by 20 to 40 basis
points (bps) in 2019 due to improved fixed-cost
leverage and will be flat to down 10 bps in 2020.
• The company made a $20 million voluntary
pre-payment of its term loan on Sept. 10, 2019, and
we now expect leverage to be in the mid-3x area at
the end of 2019. We do not forecast any further
voluntary debt reduction and expect a modest
improvement in leverage due to EBITDA growth,
but remain in the mid-3x area in 2020.

Base-case projections
Screenvision's revenue is more tied to movie theater attendance than GDP growth. While national advertising spend in
the U.S. correlates with GDP, the company's revenue growth is mostly determined by the attractiveness of the current
and upcoming film release slate, the timing of ad campaigns at its largest content partners, and trends in the national
advertising scatter market.

Company Description
Screenvision is the second-largest in-theater cinema advertiser in terms of revenue with exclusive agreements to

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 4

Screenvision, LLC

advertise on over 15,000 screens, or roughly 37%-38% of total U.S. screens. It has a presence in all 50 states and 93%
of designated market areas (DMAs). The company offers various advertisements, content, and interactive media prior
to the screening of feature films in movie theaters. Screenvision is privately owned and private equity firm Abry
Partners holds the majority of the equity, with AMC Entertainment and management owning a minority stake.

Business Risk: Weak
Screenvision depends on advertising revenue, which tends to be highly cyclical.
The company's advertising revenue is concentrated and can be significantly affected by the timing of campaigns and
trends in its largest advertising categories. The company generates over 80% of its revenue from national advertising.
About 30% of the company's total advertising revenue is concentrated in the automotive category, with 17% of total
revenue from a partnership with a single customer. Its next three largest categories (insurance, media, and consumer
electronics) together account for another 35%. While the company's revenue was stable during the last recession, we
believe that advertising spending would decline in a future recession, and automotive advertising would likely decline
more than that of the industry. The company pays its exhibitor partners a share of the advertising revenue it generates
in their theaters, with a minimum guarantee. The minimum guarantee creates a fixed-cost component when revenue
declines, which can result in negative operating leverage in a potential stress scenario. This could lead to a significant
deterioration in Screenvision's revenue and credit metrics in a recessionary environment.

Screenvision is exposed to volatile box office attendance.
Once the company sells all or nearly all of its ad inventory, declines in theater attendance could hurt performance
because national advertisers buy inventory based on forecasted box office attendance. If performance is weaker than
expected, the company will have to use future scatter inventory to make advertisers whole, foregoing additional
revenue.

Revenue growth is tied to Screenvision's ability to maintain its pricing.
We believe there is limited pricing upside, given in-theater advertising's already high rates, which are roughly
comparable to those of prime-time broadcast television. However, we expect the revenue mix to continue shifting
toward the later portions of the pre-show, which are more expensive, leading to increases in average CPMs. Unlike
most other advertising media, Screenvision has limited ability to expand its ad inventory and will therefore primarily
rely on increasing inventory utilization and ad rate increases to generate revenue growth.

Peer comparison
• We view Screenvision's business less favorably compared to its key peer National Cinemedia Inc. (NCM) mainly due
to NCM's larger scale and higher profitability.
• Screenvision has exclusive agreements to advertise on over 15,000 screens, or roughly 37%-38% of total U.S.
screens. NCM has agreements with theater owners representing about 52% of total U.S. screens, around 20,800, but
generates roughly double the revenue and over four times the EBITDA of Screenvision.
• NCM has long-term exclusive contracts with its founders--AMC, Regal, and Cinemark, which are the three largest
movie exhibitors in the U.S.--and pays its founders a theater access fee instead of a revenue-sharing agreement.
Because of its cheaper theater access fees, NCM has a considerably higher EBITDA margin than Screenvision. This
profitability advantage is somewhat tempered by NCM's requirement under its operating agreement to distribute

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 5

Screenvision, LLC

nearly all of its cash flow if leverage is below 6.5x. This limits NCM's ability to reduce leverage through cash flow.
• Screenvision negotiates contracts with individual theater circuits with costs based on revenue-sharing agreements.
Its contracts tend to be much shorter compared to NCM's agreement with its founders and the company faces much
higher renewal risks.
• NCM's founders account for roughly 80% of its screens and we believe that some midsize exhibitors that compete
directly with NCM's exhibitor founders likely do not want their larger competitors to profit from their attendance,
which provides Screenvision with a competitive advantage in securing their business.
• While the relationship with its founders is a competitive advantage for NCM, it does limit the company's operational
flexibility compared to Screenvision. In some cases, Screenvision has negotiated the rights to place advertising after
the scheduled show time, which is less likely to be affected by reserved seating and can be sold at a premium CPM.
NCM would not be able to offer something similar in the screens contributed by its founders.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
The company has moderate working capital and capital spending requirements and will generate healthy FOCF of
about $15 million to $17 million over the next 12 months. While the company has used its cash flow to repay debt in
2019, the company is financial-sponsor owned and we believe that the sponsor could push for a more aggressive
financial policy that includes debt-financed shareholder distributions typically associated with a private equity strategy.
The potential for a more aggressive financial policy combined with our view of the cyclicality in national advertising,
significant upcoming contract renewals, and volatility in intra-year exhibitor attendance support our view that the
company's current leverage level understates the actual financial risk.

Liquidity: Adequate
We expect liquidity sources will exceed uses by over 6x over the next 12 months and net liquidity sources will remain
positive, even if EBITDA drops by 30%. However, in a low-probability, high-impact stress scenario, the covenant could
restrict the company's access to its revolver. We believe that limited refinancing, such as an amendment, might be
necessary in a stress scenario to maintain adequate liquidity.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Cash balances of about $18.5 million as of June 30,
2019;

• $1.8 million in annual mandatory amortization;

• Full availability under its $30 million revolver; and

• $3 million to $5 million in annual working capital
requirements; and

• Cash flow from operations of roughly $20 million to
$25 million over the next 12 months.

• $6 million to $7 million in annual capital spending
requirements.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 6

Screenvision, LLC

Debt maturities
The company's $175 million term loan B (roughly $153.7 million outstanding) matures on July 2, 2025.

Covenant Analysis
The company's revolver contains a springing net first-lien leverage test of 5.5x that is only tested when 35% is drawn
on the revolver. We expect that the revolving credit facility will remain undrawn and the covenant will not be
applicable over the next 12 months.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• Screenvision's senior secured credit facility consists off a pari passu $30 million senior secured revolver due in 2023
and $175 million senior secured term loan ($153.7 million outstanding) due in 2025.
• The facility is guaranteed by Screenvision LLC and all material wholly owned domestic subsidiaries. We assume
substantially all earnings generated from guarantor subsidiaries and assets are pledged as collateral for the benefit of
secured lenders.

Simulated default assumptions
• Our simulated default scenario contemplates a payment default in 2022, as a result of reduced cinema
advertisement spending and an attendance decline, either from a streak of unappealing films or audiences favoring
entertainment alternatives; financial stress resulting from high debt service; or meaningful client losses to National
CineMedia.
• Other default assumptions include an 85% draw on the revolving credit facility, LIBOR is 2.5%, the spread on the
revolving credit facility rises to 5% as covenant amendments are obtained, and all debt includes six months of
prepetition interest.
• We expect Screenvision would reorganize in the event of a default, given its good market position, limited
competition, and key relationships with small and regional U.S. cinema exhibitors.

Simplified waterfall
• Emergence EBITDA: about $24 million
• EBITDA multiple: 6x
• Net enterprise value (after 5% administration expenses): about $135 million
• Estimated senior secured debt claims: $200 million
• --Recovery range: 50%-70%; rounded estimate: 65%

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B/Stable/--

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 7

Screenvision, LLC

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: b
Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: FS-6 (no additional impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Methodology For Linking Long-Term And Short-Term Ratings, April 7, 2017
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate
Issuers, Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria | Corporates | General: The Treatment Of Non-Common Equity Financing In Nonfinancial Corporate
Entities, April 29, 2014
• Criteria | Corporates | Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Media And Entertainment Industry, Dec. 24, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 8

Screenvision, LLC

Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Business Risk Profile
Excellent
Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

Ratings Detail (As Of September 13, 2019)*
Screenvision, LLC
Issuer Credit Rating

B/Stable/--

Senior Secured

B

Issuer Credit Ratings History
12-Jun-2018

B/Stable/--

Related Entities
Sequel Merger Sub II LLC
Senior Secured

B

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 9

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 10

