Mavenir Private Holdings II Ltd.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Allyn Arden, CFA, New York (1) 212-438-7832; allyn.arden@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
William Savage, New York + 1 (212) 438 0259; william.savage@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 9, 2019 1

Mavenir Private Holdings II Ltd.
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b-

b-

b-

B-/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key Strengths

Key Risks

Relatively long contract lengths of around 3-5
years provide some revenue visibility.

Intense competition from significantly larger and better-capitalized peers.

Well diversified geographic revenue base with
around 44% of revenue from outside of North
America.

Lack of meaningful scale resulting in cost disadvantages.

Low capital intensity supports improving cash
flow.

High customer concentration poses risk from industry consolidation.
Elevated adjusted debt to EBITDA, in the 8x area. Despite our expectation for leverage
reduction over the next year, we believe longer-term improvement is constrained by its
private equity ownership.

Regulatory delays from its merger with Sprint has caused T-Mobile to defer projects with Mavenir Private Holdings II
Ltd. Mavenir's revenue declined around 4% in the first quarter of 2019, year-over-year. T-Mobile has delayed new
projects until the resolution of its proposed merger with Sprint. S&P Global Ratings believes that if the merger is
approved, this could result in new revenue opportunities as T-Mobile integrates Sprint's operations, but spending by
T-Mobile could continue to fall over the next six months, if not longer, until we have greater clarity around the
outcome of the merger.
Healthy backlog and new bookings support some revenue visibility for 2019. Mavenir is launching several new products
and services and is expanding its customer portfolio while also investing in new opportunities in radio, virtualized
Evolved Packet Core (vEPC), and advanced services. Despite revenue headwinds from T-Mobile, we expect Mavenir
to generate modest low- to mid-single-digit revenue growth in 2019 and 2020 driven by new products and increased
customer penetration.
We expect leverage to remain elevated longer term because of its private equity ownership. Mavenir's adjusted debt to
EBITDA is elevated at around 7.7x as of the first quarter of 2019, although we expect leverage will decline to the
low-7x area in 2019 and mid-5x area in 2020 primarily from EBITDA growth because of cost saving initiatives, lower
research and development expenses, and as restructuring costs wind down. Longer term, we believe leverage could
remain high given its private equity ownership and our view that the company could make debt-funded acquisitions or
shareholder returns.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 9, 2019 2

Mavenir Private Holdings II Ltd.

Outlook: Stable

The stable outlook reflects our expectation that Mavenir's leverage will continue to gradually decline over the next
12 months due to revenue and EBITDA growth from increased penetration and monetization of existing products,
cost-saving initiatives, and the elimination of near-term restructuring expenses.

Downside scenario
We could lower the rating if projected cost savings do not materialize, the company loses contracts with its
customers, and pricing pressure results in lower EBITDA that ultimately hurts the company's liquidity position.
This could lead us to view the capital structure as unsustainable longer term.

Upside scenario
We could raise the rating if leverage improves to below 6.5x and we believe that the company is committed to
maintaining leverage at this level. This would also be predicated on continued margin improvement to levels more
on par with those of peers and sustained positive free operating cash flow (FOCF).

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 9, 2019 3

Mavenir Private Holdings II Ltd.

Assumptions

• U.S. GDP growth of 2.2% in 2019 and 1.7% in 2020;
however, we do not expect macroeconomic factors
to affect Mavenir significantly given that the industry
is more tied to technological advances and secular
trends.

Key Metrics

2018A
Debt to EBITDA (X)

8.4

2019E

2020E

7.0 -7.5 5.2x-5.8

FFO to Debt (%)

(0.1)

5–8

8 - 12

FOCF to Debt (%)

(7.6) 4.5 - 6.5 5.5 - 7.5

• Revenue growth in the low- to mid-single-digit
percent area through 2019 and 2020, driven by
increased customer penetration of global tier 1
carriers and monetization of existing products, a
transition to 5G wireless services, and new bookings
from existing customers.
• The EBITDA margin improves modestly in 2019 but
still remains low, in the high-teen percent area, due
to cost savings, a decline in restructuring expenses,
and the benefits of revenue growth. Nevertheless,
these improvements are largely offset by higher
research and development (R&D) expense incurred
on existing and new initiatives like 5G Radio and 5G
Packet Core. We expect margin improvement to the
mid-20% area in 2020, primarily due to revenue
growth and a decline in R&D expense.
• Capital expenditures as a percentage of revenues of
around 3%-4% in 2019 and 2020 as Mavenir
continues to grow its Access and Advanced Services
segments.

Company Description
Mavenir provides network infrastructure software to mobile network operators. These solutions are designed to deliver
internet protocol (IP)-based voice, video, rich communications, and enhanced messaging services on commoditized
hardware. Mavenir operates in a relatively niche market, serving more than 250 mobile network operators that serve
over 3 billion subscribers, in over 140 countries. In the company's addressable markets, the company competes against
larger and better-capitalized peers such as Ericsson, Nokia, Huawei, and ZTE. These competitors have greater
financial flexibility and scale to capture market share. In addition, Mavenir has substantial customer concentration,
with about a third of revenues derived from T-Mobile and about 70% of revenues from the company's largest 10
customers.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 9, 2019 4

Mavenir Private Holdings II Ltd.

Business Risk: Weak
Our business risk assessment reflects its small scale, intense competition from larger, better-capitalized peers, and
significant customer concentration. These factors are partially offset by long-term contracts with its customers (3-5
year average), solid geographic diversity (about 45% of revenues come from international markets), increasing product
penetration among global wireless network operators, and low capital intensity, which should enable improving levels
of FOCF.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
Mavenir's adjusted leverage is elevated at about 7.7x as of the quarter ended April 30, 2019, although we expect
leverage to decline to the low-7x area in 2019 and the mid-5x area by 2020. Longer term, we expect leverage will
remain high because of its private equity ownership and the likelihood for debt-financed acquisitions or shareholder
returns.
Our leverage calculation includes adjustments for the present value of operating lease payments, which add about $46
million to reported debt and $16 million to EBITDA.

Liquidity: Adequate
We view Mavenir's liquidity as adequate, reflecting our expectation that sources of liquidity will exceed uses by over
7x over the next 12 months and that net sources will remain positive, even with a 15% decline in EBITDA. Despite this
level of liquidity, we believe high-impact, low-probability events would cause the company's liquidity to become
constrained, and we believe the company has limited access to the public capital markets.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Cash and equivalents of about $59 million as of April
30, 2019;

• Capital expenditures of around $13 million to $15
million over the next 12 months; and

• About $60 million available under its senior secured
revolving credit facility due in 2023;

• Debt amortization of about $5.5 million over the
next 12 months.

• Limited funds from operations (FFO) over the next
12 months; and
• Positive working capital inflow of about $30 million
to $35 million over the next 12 months, primarily
due to reduction in inventory and trade receivables.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 9, 2019 5

Mavenir Private Holdings II Ltd.

Covenant Analysis
Compliance expectations
We expect the company will have at least a 35% cushion under its credit facility covenants over the next year.

Requirements
Mavenir has a springing 7.5x total leverage covenant on its revolving credit facility if it is more than 35% drawn, which
we do not expect over the next year.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Simulated default assumptions
• Our simulated default scenario contemplates a default in 2021, primarily due to the loss of a major customer as a
result of consolidation within the telecom industry and revenue declines in the company's core business due to
competitive pressure from third-party applications or lower-than-expected growth in its advanced services.
• We have valued the company on a going-concern basis using a 6x multiple of our projected EBITDA of about $58
million. The multiple is in line with the multiples we typically use for our small to midsize network software
providers.

Simplified waterfall
• EBITDA at emergence: $58 million
• EBITDA multiple: 6x
• Gross Recovery value: $346 million
• Net recovery value for waterfall after administrative expenses (5%): $328 million
• Estimated senior secured debt: $612 million
• Value available for senior secured debt: $282 million
• --Recovery range: 50%-70%; rounded estimate: 50%

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B-/Stable/--

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: Low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 9, 2019 6

Mavenir Private Holdings II Ltd.

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: bModifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: FS-6 (no additional impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)
Stand-alone credit profile : b-

• Group credit profile: b-

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, July 1, 2019
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, April 1, 2019
• General Criteria: Methodology For Linking Long-Term And Short-Term Ratings, April 7, 2017
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Telecommunications And Cable Industry, June 22,
2014
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 9, 2019 7

Mavenir Private Holdings II Ltd.

Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Business Risk Profile
Excellent
Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

Ratings Detail (As Of September 9, 2019)*
Mavenir Private Holdings II Ltd.
Issuer Credit Rating

B-/Stable/--

Issuer Credit Ratings History
13-Apr-2018

B-/Stable/--

Related Entities
Mavenir Systems, Inc.
Senior Secured

B-

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 9, 2019 8

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 9, 2019 9

