Broward County, Florida
Port Everglades; Ports/Port
Authorities
Primary Credit Analyst:
Kenneth P Biddison, Centennial + 1 (303) 721 4321; kenneth.biddison@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Joseph J Pezzimenti, New York (1) 212-438-2038; joseph.pezzimenti@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Rationale
Outlook
Enterprise Risk
Financial Risk

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 21, 2019 1

Broward County, Florida
Port Everglades; Ports/Port Authorities
Credit Profile
US$326.725 mil port facs rev bnds (amt) (Port Everglades) ser 2019B due 09/01/2049
Long Term Rating

A/Stable

New

US$113.58 mil port facs rev bnds (non-amt) (Port Everglades) ser 2019A due 09/01/2049
Long Term Rating

A/Stable

New

US$43.345 mil port facs rfdg rev bnds (non-amt) (Port Everglades) ser 2019C due 09/01/2029
Long Term Rating

A/Stable

New

US$21.385 mil subord port facs rfdg rev bnds (amt) (Port Everglades) ser 2019D due 09/01/2027
Long Term Rating

A-/Stable

New

Rationale
S&P Global Ratings assigned its 'A' long-term rating to Broward County, Fla.'s proposed $113.6 million series 2019A
and $326.7 million series 2019B port facility revenue bonds, and to the county's $43.3 million port facilities refunding
revenue bonds, all issued for Port Everglades. S&P Global Ratings also assigned its 'A-' long-term rating to the county's
proposed $21.4 million series 2019D subordinate port facilities refunding revenue bonds. At the same time, S&P Global
Ratings affirmed its 'A' rating on the county's port facilities revenue bonds outstanding. The outlook is stable.
The ratings are based on the application of our "U.S. And Canadian Not-For-Profit Transportation Infrastructure
Enterprises" criteria, published March 12, 2018.
The ratings reflect our opinion of the port's strong enterprise risk and financial risk profiles. Our enterprise risk profile
assessment reflects the port's favorable location, which affords it excellent access to open-ocean shipping lanes, Fort
Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport, and major Latin American and Caribbean markets. Some fluctuations in
activity levels across different economic cycles offset this credit strength. The financial risk profile assessment reflects
our expectation Port Everglades will maintain debt service coverage (DSC), per our calculations, and debt capacity at
levels we consider strong inclusive of the port's plans to issue approximately $150 million in additional debt through
2023 while maintaining significant cash reserves to fund a sizable capital program.
The enterprise risk profile reflects our view of the port's:
• Strong market position due to generally diverse operations, with the majority of revenues derived from cruise ships,
containerized cargo, and petroleum, although activity levels fluctuate somewhat across different economic cycles
and there is moderate concentration in the cruise industry;
• Extremely strong service area economic fundamentals, which include favorable GDP per capita, low
unemployment, and a large and growing population;
• Low industry risk relative to that of other industries and sectors; and

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 21, 2019 2

Broward County, Florida Port Everglades; Ports/Port Authorities

• Very strong management and governance that we believe has established a track record of operating its major lines
of business and managing risk.
The financial risk profile reflects our view of the port's:
• DSC (S&P Global Ratings-calculated) that we expect will remain at levels we consider strong, at approximately 2x
or above including the effects of potential additional borrowing throughout the five-year forecast period;
• Strong debt and liabilities capacity, including the effects of the capital improvement plan (CIP), which we consider
manageable but that is funded with a significant amount of additional debt; and
• Very strong liquidity and financial flexibility because of the port's substantial available liquidity and its plan to draw
on the position somewhat to fund a portion of the CIP but maintain a minimum of 600 days' cash on hand.
Net port revenues secure the port facility bonds, and the subordinate bonds have a junior pledge of net revenues. The
bonds also benefit from a debt service reserve funded to maximum annual debt service (MADS). The debt service
reserve requirement, which equals MADS (approximately $21.8 million) on all bonds (except for the 2009 series), is
satisfied with a surety policy from Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp. The bond documents do not require the port to
replace a surety provider if the rating on it drops below a certain level. As of fiscal year-end 2018, the port has
approximately $144.5 million in senior parity debt. It also has $25.0 million in series 2008 subordinate port facilities
refunding revenue bonds, which we do not rate. We view the bond provisions as credit neutral.
Port Everglades is a county-owned enterprise and is ranked the largest seaport in Florida by revenue, with $168
million. It is the second-busiest international containerized cargo port in the state, and is also the third-busiest cruise
port worldwide. The port's convenient access points; deep channel; close proximity to Latin America and the
Caribbean; and extensive, modern, and expandable facility infrastructure enable it to remain competitive in all of its
major business lines.

Outlook
The stable outlook reflects our expectation that the port's generally diverse operations will continue to support DSC
and debt capacity near strong levels as it manages its CIP.

Upside scenario
We could raise the rating if the port demonstrates very strong and sustainable debt burden capacity, including the
effects of additional debt.

Downside scenario
Although unlikely, if DSC erodes significantly below forecast levels, we could lower the rating.

Enterprise Risk
Our assessment of Port Everglades' enterprise risk profile reflects the port's economic fundamentals, low industry risk,
market position, and management and governance.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 21, 2019 3

Broward County, Florida Port Everglades; Ports/Port Authorities

Economic fundamentals
Our economic fundamentals assessment is based on the Miami-Fort Lauderdale-West Palm Beach metropolitan
statistical area (MSA), although we consider the broader area the port serves from a container and cruise passenger
perspective. As a result, we consider the port's economic fundamentals extremely strong. Exemplifying this is the
MSA's GDP per capita of approximately $59,539; the projected 2018 unemployment rate of 3.6%, in line with the
national rate of 3.9%; and a projected three-year population growth rate of 2.6% for the 6.2 million population of the
MSA.

Market position
The port's overall market position reflects revenues from cruise operations, containerized cargo, and petroleum that
are estimated at 36%, 21%, and 22%, respectively, of total revenues, based on audited 2018 results. Although Port
Everglades is the dominant petroleum provider for the southern Florida market, petroleum volumes have fluctuated
historically. Containerized- and bulk-cargo growth recovered during fiscal years 2011-2014 and surpassed
pre-recession volumes; cargo volumes were up approximately 8% in fiscal 2017 and 1.9% in fiscal 2018. Finally,
cruise-passenger volume has remained relatively flat at 3.87 million passengers in fiscal 2018, compared with 3.83
million in 2016. However, Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. expects to decrease its service at Port Everglades, with
anticipated passenger levels declining in fiscal 2019 to approximately 3.6 million. Royal Caribbean and Carnival Corp.
are the largest tenants at the port, with approximately 18.7% and 16.2% of operating revenues in fiscal 2018,
respectively. Overall, we consider the port's operations diversified.
Located in southern Florida, Port Everglades has a good competitive position in terms of its trade lane market share,
due to ease of access to southern, Latin American, and Caribbean markets. It competes largely with the Port of Miami
and Port Canaveral. In addition, the port has a favorable location for the cruise industry and could have long-term
benefits with post-panamax ships. Deep waterways are important because they enable ports to handle the increasingly
large vessels used by shipping companies. The market position also reflects competitive advantages related to the
port's rail access, which contribute to quick transit times for goods flowing to and from the port, and its available
capacity for expansion to accommodate demand growth.

Management and governance
The port's management and governance, in our view, is very strong, reflecting our opinion of the strategic positioning,
risk and financial management, and organizational effectiveness. The Broward County Board of County
Commissioners governs the port as a self-funded enterprise fund. Management has maintained favorable financial
margins despite some fluctuating activity levels. We consider the port's revenue forecasts conservative, based on
existing activity and agreements with tenants. Although the forecast includes some draws on liquidity and a
heightened debt burden from this proposed bond issuance, management, in our opinion, has been very effective in
operating facilities and managing finances. We expect officials will manage the CIP prudently.
The port has minimum annual guarantees with shipping companies, which have been renegotiated due to changes in
the companies' business strategies. In the case where the minimum annual guarantee was renegotiated, the
agreement's term was extended and the shipping company agreed to invest in port facilities.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 21, 2019 4

Broward County, Florida Port Everglades; Ports/Port Authorities

Financial Risk
Our assessment of Port Everglades' financial risk profile reflects the port's financial performance, debt and liabilities
capacity, and liquidity and financial flexibility. Our financial profile risk assessment considers pro forma figures, which
include the effects of the planned additional bonds of approximately $150 million through 2023, while maintaining
significant available liquidity to fund a portion of the CIP. The pro forma figures also reflect steady or modest increases
in demand and related net revenue growth. Our financial profile assessment also considers the port's financial policies,
which we consider credit neutral.

Financial performance
The strong financial performance assessment reflects our expectation that DSC, as per our pro forma calculations, will
remain near or above 2x. The port has historically maintained diverse operations, enabling it to exhibit solid financial
performance through weaker economic conditions. Steady operational growth has supported incremental revenue
increases since 2014, with a 2% five-year compound annual growth rate for total operating revenues since fiscal 2014.
Operating revenues were up 3.9% in fiscal 2018 to $168 million, due to increases in cruise and petroleum revenues.
The port, in our opinion, is moderately concentrated in the cruise industry with cruise-related activity, including cruise
and parking revenues, accounting for 40.6% of operating revenues in fiscal 2018.
We expect DSC to be strong over the next five years as the port funds its capital plan. Fiscal 2018 results yield all-in
DSC of about 3x. Historically, the port has maintained all-in DSC of no less than 1.6x since fiscal 2007, and above 2.2x
over the past seven years. However, we expect DSC, per our calculations, will fall to approximately 2x in fiscal 2023,
including the effects of the proposed debt issuances over the five-year forecast period. Our coverage calculations
include all of the port's senior and subordinate obligations. The forecast assumes annual increases in operating
revenues and is based on annual guarantees through port agreements. The projections also take into account the
reduction in cruise revenue and the increase in other revenue streams, such as increased container operations driven
by new infrastructure. Although we expect DSC to remain strong, the sizing and timing of potential additional debt
issuances are subject to change as the port proceeds with its long-term master plan. We believe the financial profile is
sufficiently strong for the system to support the financial profile assessment even with additional debt issuances,
although this is subject to the pledge of revenues, timing, and sizing of additional borrowings. However, a substantial
portion of the capital plan is devoted to increased revenue-generating capabilities, so we expect DSC will remain
strong throughout the forecast period.

Debt and liabilities
We assess the port's debt and liabilities capacity as strong. We base this assessment on our expectation that revenue
growth will somewhat offset the rising debt burden and translate into debt-to-EBIDA metrics at about 10x or less. We
expect that, including additional debt borrowing through 2023, principal outstanding will rise to approximately $800
million. At fiscal year-end 2018, Port Everglades has approximately $169.5 million in revenue bonds outstanding
including senior and subordinate bonds. The fiscal 2018 debt load equaled 2.7x the authority's net revenues.
We consider the port's five-year CIP, at about $500.8 million, large but manageable for the size of its facilities. A
significant portion of the plan will be debt-financed. As demand warrants, management incorporates additional

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 21, 2019 5

Broward County, Florida Port Everglades; Ports/Port Authorities

infrastructure projects into its plan, but sizing and timing remain flexible. Most of the projects are growth-driven and
could be scaled down should demand decrease. We will monitor the port's CIP as it completes its long-term strategic
master plan. Port Everglades has an updated roadmap for growth over the next 20 years to improve productivity for
cargo, cruise, and petroleum businesses that operate at the South Florida seaport. The port expects to issue
approximately $150 million in senior-lien bonds in 2022 and a $122 million in subordinate Transportation
Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act loan in 2020.
Currently, all of the port's senior debt is fixed-rate, while the subordinate debt is variable-rate and 100% synthetically
fixed from a floating-to-fixed rate swap with Goldman Sachs Groups Inc. As a result, the port's exposure to unhedged
variable-rate debt is zero. Although after issuance of the series 2019 bonds, all debt will be fixed-rate and the swap
agreement will be terminated, as of Sept. 30, 2018, the swap had a mark-to-market value of negative $1.7 million,
meaning if it was terminated on that date, the port would owe approximately this amount to the counterparty. The
swap agreement includes a termination trigger that occurs if S&P Global Ratings lowers its rating on the port's debt
below 'BBB'. We consider this possibility to be remote given the difference between the current and trigger ratings. We
believe the port has ample liquidity to manage any termination risks. Port Everglades is not required to post any
collateral under the swap agreement.

Liquidity and financial flexibility
The port's liquidity and financial flexibility reflects the ample cash reserves to support operations and balance
additional debt needs. Fiscal 2018 unrestricted cash and investments totaled $227.2 million, providing 798 days' cash
on hand. Available liquidity ranged from 779-1,136 days' cash on hand during fiscal years 2011-2018. Available
liquidity to debt was 132% in 2018. However, we expect spending for the capital plan will lower cash reserves over the
next several years. We understand management maintains minimum-targeted liquidity of 600 days' cash on hand.
Ratings Detail (As Of August 21, 2019)
Broward Cnty, Florida
Port Everglades, Florida
Broward Cnty (Port Everglades Auth)
Long Term Rating

A/Stable

Affirmed

A/Stable

Affirmed

A(SPUR)/Stable

Affirmed

Broward Cnty (Port Everglades)
Long Term Rating
Broward Cnty (Port Everglades)
Unenhanced Rating
Many issues are enhanced by bond insurance.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 21, 2019 6

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 21, 2019 7

