PAE Holding Corp.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Stephen E Kahn, New York (1) 212-438-5012; stephen.kahn@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Christopher A Denicolo, CFA, Washington D.C. (1) 202-383-2398; christopher.denicolo@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings--Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 1

PAE Holding Corp.
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b

b

b

B/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key strengths

Key risks

Robust government spending environment

Competes in the highly competitive government services industry

Recent acquisitions have broadened capabilities

Modest scale relative to other government service providers

Diversified customer and contract bases for its size Relatively low margins, as the company utilizes cost savings to bid more competitively
Debt leverage above 7x and financial sponsor unlikely to reduce leverage below 5x.

New award delays and subsequent protests have slowed earnings growth and an improvement in credit metrics.
While award protests are common throughout the government services industry, they are currently having an outsized
impact on PAE Holding Corp., which is counting on new work to replace recently completed and lost contracts. In
addition, the company has also dealt with delays in new program ramp-up, resulting in slower earnings improvement
than previously anticipated. These trends are likely to result in debt to EBITDA only improving to 6.3x-6.7x in 2019,
compared with our previous expectations of 5.0x-5.4x.
However, new business wins and on-contract growth should result in earnings and credit ratios improving over the next
12-24 months. PAE's acquisitions over the past few years have helped to expand its range of capabilities and position
itself for new business wins. The result has been new contract awards, particularly in the National Security Solutions
(NSS) segment, which is typically higher margin and has better long-term growth prospects. The company has
managed to supplement the growth in NSS with margin improvement due to increased scale and more efficient project
management.
PAE benefits from fairly good contract diversity, limiting the impact of individual contract losses or delays on earnings.
No contract accounts for more than 7% of PAE's annual revenue, so the loss of a top contract would only have a
moderate impact on revenues and earnings. While the company's recent challenges arose due to multiple lost
contracts and delays all occurring at the same time, PAE should be less susceptible to similar issues in the future as it
takes on new business. Also, recompete risk is modest, as PAE generally has less than 15%-20% of contracts up for
recompete in any given year.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 2

PAE Holding Corp.

Outlook: Stable

The stable outlook reflects our expectation that the company's leverage will improve modestly over the next 12
months due to higher earnings and some debt reduction, but will remain high. We do not expect its debt to
EBITDA to fall below 5x because its private equity sponsor will probably undertake further dividends or
debt-financed acquisitions.

Downside scenario
We could lower our rating on PAE if debt to EBITDA remains over 7x for the next 12 months and we don't expect
it to improve. This could occur if the company undertakes a debt-financed acquisition or dividends, faces
integration challenges, loses material contracts, or encounters profitability issues. We could also lower the rating if
the company's liquidity position materially deteriorates.

Upside scenario
PAE's ownership by a private equity firm and the potential for a debt-financed dividend or other transaction that
could significantly increase its leverage make it unlikely that we will upgrade the company under its current
ownership structure.

Our Base-Case Scenario
Assumptions

• Organic revenue growth between 5%-7% annually
due to a robust federal budget, new business wins,
and on-contract growth;
• Total revenue growth supplemented by small
acquisitions around $25 million annually;
• Stable EBITDA margins of 5.0%-5.5%;
• Very modest capital spending around $10 million
annually; and

Key Metrics

2018a
FFO to debt (%)
Debt to EBITDA (x)
DCF/debt (%)

2019e

2020f

2.7 4.6-5.0 6.2-6.6
7.7 6.3-6.7 5.6-6.0
(4.6) 8.1-8.5 4.8-5.2

a--Actual. e--Estimate. f--Forecast. FFO--Funds from
operations. DCF--Discretionary cash flow.

• No forecasted dividends.

Company Description
PAE provides integrated services to support missions worldwide. Its services include military aviation and
ground-vehicle maintenance, expeditionary construction, national army and policy training, civil infrastructure

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 3

PAE Holding Corp.

support, and development of the criminal justice sector. More broadly, PAE provides foreign assistance and works on
stability operations around the world. It customers include the U.S. government, defense forces, international agencies,
and foreign governments. Operations are divided into two business units--GMS (about 75% of revenues), which is
more focused on Department of Defense, and NSS (25%), which is more intelligence-based. Platinum Equity, a
private-equity firm, owns PAE.

Business Risk: Weak
Modest-size PAE participates in the competitive government services market and has relatively low margins, but is
currently benefitting from sustained robust defense spending. Many of PAE's services are relatively unsophisticated
and customer relationships are one of the only key barriers to entry. The company has been broadening its customer
diversity by expanding its work with intelligence and civilian agencies from its military customer base. The
government services market is historically price-competitive, but customers are focusing more on value and a
company's capabilities than solely on price in recent years due to increasing defense budgets.
PAE maintains a flexible cost structure, allowing it to bid effectively in a price-sensitive environment. Most contracts
are cost-plus, which have limited downside risk, but also create a ceiling for margins. While the company is working to
decrease costs, we expect it will use cost savings to bid more aggressively, ultimately leaving margins stable.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
PAE's debt to EBITDA was just over 7.5x in 2018, but we expect it to drop to 6.3x-6.7x in 2019 and below 6x by the
end of 2020 as earnings grow modestly and the company pays down debt. However, we do not expect Platinum to
actively try to reduce leverage much beyond that point, and if it continued declining, we believe the sponsor would
pursue large acquisitions or perhaps take a debt-funded dividend. We expect the company to generate good cash flow
due to low capital expenditures and modest working capital needs, with excess cash likely used to reduce debt unless
if finds suitable acquisition targets.

Liquidity: Adequate
We assess PAE's liquidity as adequate, with sources of cash likely to exceed uses by more than 4x for the next 12
months. We also expect net liquidity sources to be positive, even with a 15% drop in EBITDA. Although we believe
PAE has sound relationships with its banks, its overall standing in the credit markets is not as strong as that of its
larger, more well-established competitors and we don't believe that PAE would be able to absorb a low-probability,
high-impact event without refinancing.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 4

PAE Holding Corp.

Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Cash of about $55 million as of June 30, 2019;

• Capital spending of about $10 million per year; and

• Availability of about $90 million under its $150
million revolving credit facility due 2021; and

• Required term loan amortization of about $30
million annually.

• Cash from operations of $40 million-$50 million over
the next 12 months.

Covenant Analysis
Compliance expectations
We do not expect the company's usage of the revolver to exceed 87.5%, so it is unlikely that the leverage covenant in
the asset-based lending (ABL) revolver will be tested in the next year. There are no financial maintenance covenants
on the term loans.

Requirements
The ABL revolver has a minimum fixed-charge covenant of 1:1 that is only tested if availability is below 12.5%.

Issue Ratings--Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• The company's capital structure consists of a $595 million first-lien term loan ($529 million outstanding) due 2022, a
$268 million second-lien term loan ($265 million outstanding) due 2023, and a $150 million ABL revolver due 2021
(not rated).
• We value the company on a going-concern basis using a 5x multiple of our projected emergence EBITDA. Other
key assumptions at default include LIBOR of 2.5% and the ABL revolver is 60% drawn. Drawings under the ABL are
considered priority claims.

Simulated default assumptions
• Simulated year of default: 2022
• EBITDA at emergence: $97 million
• EBITDA multiple: 5x

Simplified waterfall
• Net enterprise value (after 5% administrative costs): $460 million
• Valuation split (obligors/nonobligors): 100%/0%
• Priority claims: $71 million
• Collateral available to first-lien creditors: $389 million

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 5

PAE Holding Corp.

• First-lien debt claims: $465 million
• Recovery expectations: 70%-90% (Rounded Estimate: 80%)
• Collateral available to second-lien creditors: $0
• Secured second-lien debt claims: $281 million
• Recovery expectations: 0%-10% (Rounded Estimate: 0%)

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B/Stable/--

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: b
Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: FS-6 (no additional impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)
Stand-alone credit profile : b

Related Criteria
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Aerospace And Defense Industry, March 25, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 6

PAE Holding Corp.

• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Business Risk Profile
Excellent
Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

Ratings Detail (As Of September 25, 2019)*
PAE Holding Corp.
Issuer Credit Rating

B/Stable/--

Senior Secured

B+

Senior Secured

CCC+

Issuer Credit Ratings History
28-Sep-2016

B/Stable/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 7

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 8

