Engineered Machinery Holdings Inc.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Gilad Kopelman, New York + 1 (212) 438 1160; gilad.kopelman@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Trevor T Martin, CFA, New York (1) 212-438-7286; trevor.martin@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 1

Engineered Machinery Holdings Inc.
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b-

b-

b-

B-/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key strengths

Key risks

A sizeable proportion of aftermarket revenue and long-standing customer
relationships.

High financial leverage.

High barriers to entry given the highly engineered and customized nature of its
products.

Limited scale relative to other rated capital goods companies.
Modest customer concentration.

We expect leverage to remain high over the next 12 months. Engineered Machinery Holdings Inc.’s (doing business as
Duravant LLC) acquisitions have been mostly accretive to its earnings but we expect its leverage to remain elevated at
about 8.5x. We anticipate that the company will generate moderate organic growth and modestly improve its margin
over the next year. We also believe the company will supplement its organic growth with additional debt-financed
acquisitions.
We expect the Material Handling segment to continue to support Duravant's growth and profitability. This segment,
which produces conveyor belts for a diverse set of end markets, continues to be the company's most profitable unit.
Duravant has managed to grow its business with existing customers while continually increasing its backlog. In
addition, more-profitable aftermarket opportunities allow the company to continue to expand its EBITDA margin.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 2

Engineered Machinery Holdings Inc.

Outlook: Stable

The stable outlook reflects our view that Duravant will modestly increase its operating scale through minor organic
growth and debt-financed acquisitions, resulting in a healthy EBITDA margin in the low 20% area. We expect
leverage to remain elevated in the mid 8.0x area over the next 12 months and anticipate that the company will
generate about $40 million of free operating cash flow (FOCF) annually.

Downside scenario
We could lower our ratings if Duravant's liquidity position weakens significantly. This could occur if reduced
demand for the company's key products, loss of key customers, and other operational challenges prevent Duravant
from meeting its fixed charges, causing it to generate negative free cash flow. This would likely lead the company
to draw on its revolver and spring the maximum secured leverage covenant.
Alternatively, we could also consider a downgrade if Duravant's aggressive financial policies--either through
additional debt-funded acquisitions or shareholder distributions--lead us to view the company's capital structure as
unsustainable.

Upside scenario
Although unlikely over the next 12 months, we could raise our ratings on Duravant if the company's credit metrics
significantly improve such that its adjusted debt to EBITDA declines below 7.0x. Under this scenario, we would
need to believe that both management and the company's financial sponsor are willing to adopt the policies and
discipline necessary to sustain this improvement.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 3

Engineered Machinery Holdings Inc.

Assumptions

• U.S. real GDP growth of 2.5% in 2019 and 1.8% in
2020 and eurozone real GDP growth of 1.1% in 2019
and 1.3% in 2020;
• U.S. equipment spending increases by 2.5% in 2019
and by 3.1% in 2020;
• Organic revenue increases by the low-single-digit
percent area, primarily stemming from growth in the
Material Handling business along with a full year of
contributions from prior acquisitions;

Key Metrics

EBITDA margin (%)
FFO to debt (%)
Debt to EBITDA (x)

2018A

2019E

2020E

19.2

20-22

20-22

3.3

5-10

5-10

10.4 8.5-9.0 8.0-8.5

A--Actual. E--Estimate. FFO--Funds from operations.

• EBITDA margins improve to 21%-22% on the
realization of acquisition synergies and pricing
initiatives;
• Capital expenditure (capex) of about 1% of sales;
• Moderate debt-financed merger and acquisition
(M&A) activity; and
• Manageable working-capital outflows.

Base-case projections
We expect Duravant's operating performance to continue to improve over the next 12 months, driven by its Material
Handling business and healthy backlog. We expect the company's adjusted EBITDA margins to remain about 20%,
benefitting from synergies from recent acquisitions as well as increased pricing power.

Company Description
Duravant provides automation solutions for packaging, material-handling, and food-processing equipment for a variety
of end markets. These include food and beverage, e-commerce, agriculture, lawn and garden, and chemicals. The
company also provides aftermarket parts and services, which account for just over one-third of its revenue. Although
Duravant maintains sales and distribution facilities worldwide, it generates about 65% of its revenues in the U.S.
Duravant is majority owned by private-equity sponsor Warburg Pincus following its leveraged buyout in July 2017.

Business Risk: Weak
Duravant has limited scale compared with that of its peers, is exposed to cyclical end markets, maintains a moderate
customer concentration, and doesn't typically sign contracts with its customers. In particular, Duravant's top 10
customers account for about 30% of its sales while its largest customer contributes about 15% of its combined sales.
On the other hand, the company has long-standing customer relationships, good market positions (either No. 1 or No.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 4

Engineered Machinery Holdings Inc.

2) in certain industry niches, fair geographic diversity (with about 30% of sales generated outside the U.S.), and higher
EBITDA margins than those of its peers.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
Duravant's maintains high leverage because of its financial-sponsor ownership by Warburg Pincus. The company
ended the March 31, 2019, quarter with adjusted debt to EBITDA of 8.8x and funds from operations (FFO) to debt of
3.6%. Following a full year of contributions from its 2018 acquisitions, along with minor margin expansion, we expect
its leverage to be closer to 8.5x by the end of 2019. We also expect the company's free cash flow generation to
improve, which will help support its acquisitive growth strategy.

Liquidity: Adequate
We forecast that Duravant will have adequate liquidity during the next 12 months. We expect the company's liquidity
sources to be more than 4.5x its uses for the next 12 months and anticipate that its net sources will remain positive
even if its EBITDA declines by 15%. We believe that the qualitative factors related to Duravant's liquidity, particularly
its less-than-favorable standing in the credit markets and our expectation that it will likely be unable to face a
high-impact financial event without refinancing, all support our assessment.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Cash on hand of $27 million as of March 31, 2019;

• Annual working-capital requirements of about $15
million over the next 12 months;

• Full availability of $70 million under the revolver
due 2022; and
• FFO of about $55 million-$65 million.

• Maintenance capex of less than 1.0% of sales
annually; and
• Term loan amortization of about $9 million over the
next 12 months.

Debt maturities
• 2024: Approximately $866 million; and
• 2025: $266 million.

Covenant Analysis
Compliance expectations
• We do not expect the company to draw on the revolver to the extent that it would cause the covenant to become
effective during the next four to six quarters, though we expect that Duravant would have adequate headroom if the
covenant were tested.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 5

Engineered Machinery Holdings Inc.

Requirements
• Duravant's first- and second-lien facilities are not subject to financial maintenance covenants. The revolving credit
facility is subject to a springing maximum first-lien net leverage ratio covenant of 7.75 to 1, which is applicable if the
drawn revolving credit facility exceeds $21 million or 30% of the revolver's commitment.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• Our simulated default scenario assumes a default occurring in the first half of 2021 amid a deep global recession that
sharply reduces the capital spending of Duravant's customers and leads to a significant reduction in the company's
sales. Pricing competition and substitution risk also lead to a decline in Duravant's customer base. We assume that
in such a scenario, the company's liquidity would be fully utilized to fund its cash shortfalls to the point that it
cannot meet its fixed obligations.
• We rate the company's first-lien facility 'B-' with a '3' recovery rating, which indicates our expectation for meaningful
recovery (50%-70%; rounded estimate: 50%) in the event of a payment default.
• We rate the company's second-lien facility 'CCC' with a '6' recovery rating, which indicates our expectation for
negligible recovery (0%-10%; rounded estimate: 5%).
• We expect the company's revolving credit facility to be 85% drawn at default.

Simulated default assumptions
• Simulated year of default: 2021
• EBITDA at emergence: $106 million
• EBITDA multiple: 5x

Simplified waterfall
• Adjusted net enterprise value (after 5% administrative costs and priority claims): $503 million
• Valuation split (obligors/nonobligors): 65%/35%
• Value available to first-lien debt collateral/non-collateral: $441 million
• Secured first-lien debt claims: $936 million
• --Recovery expectations: 50%-70% (rounded estimate: 50%)
• Total value available to second-lien debt claims: $62 million
• Total second-lien debt and deficiency claims: $774 million
• --Recovery expectations: 0%-10% (rounded estimate: 5%)

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B-/Stable/--

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 6

Engineered Machinery Holdings Inc.

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: Low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: bModifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: FS-6 (no additional impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, July 1, 2019
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, April 1, 2019
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate
Issuers, Dec. 16, 2014
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria | Corporates | Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Capital Goods Industry, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities, Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 7

Engineered Machinery Holdings Inc.

Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Business Risk Profile
Excellent
Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

Ratings Detail (As Of August 22, 2019)*
Engineered Machinery Holdings, Inc.
Issuer Credit Rating

B-/Stable/--

Senior Secured

B-

Senior Secured

CCC

Issuer Credit Ratings History
29-Aug-2018

B-/Stable/--

Related Entities
Duravant LLC
Issuer Credit Rating

B-/Stable/--

Senior Secured

B-

Senior Secured

CCC

WP Deluxe Merger Sub, Inc.
Senior Secured

B-

Senior Secured

CCC

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 8

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 9

