KC Culinarte Intermediate LLC
Primary Credit Analyst:
Amanda C O'Neill, New York + (212) 438-5450; amanda.oneill@spglobal.com
Secondary Credit Analyst:
Bea Y Chiem, San Francisco (1) 415-371-5070; bea.chiem@spglobal.com
Research Assistant:
Gregory Fang, New York

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings--Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 16, 2019 1

KC Culinarte Intermediate LLC
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b

b

b

B/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key Strengths

Key Risks

Strong industry tailwinds will support sustained mid-single-digit top-line growth.

Elevated leverage of over 6x owing to acquisitions and
facility integration costs.

Facility consolidation largely completed, providing potential for over 100 basis points
(bps) EBITDA margin expansion in 2020.

Acquisitive growth strategy leading to aggressive
financial policies.

An acquisitive growth strategy is likely to keep leverage above 5x. Leverage remains above 6x following the Harry's
acquisition that came on the heels of the 2018 Bonewerks acquisition; both acquisitions totaled over $350 million of
debt issuance. S&P Global Ratings expects KC Culinarte Intermediate LLC's leverage to decline to the mid-5x range in
2020 primarily due to improved EBITDA from the roll-off of one-time facility integration costs and the realization of
integration savings. However, we expect the company to continue to be a consolidator in the industry to gain scale
and manufacturing capabilities, as well as use its integrated sales team to capitalize on cross-selling opportunities. As a
result, we expect leverage will be managed above 5x.
Refrigerated soup consumption trends remain strong, driving strong retail growth.Chilled soups in retail channels grew
at a 12.9% compound annual growth rate from 2013-2018, according to Euromonitor International. This favorable
industry trend supports mid-teens year-to-date top-line growth for the base Kettle Cuisine business, primarily from
new customer retail wins. Kettle Cuisine positions its soups within the natural, fresh segment, capitalizing on
consumers switching to healthier and cleaner label food products, away from packaged soups. Although larger food
manufacturers, like Campbell Soup and Kraft Heinz, remain a competitive threat, they have not been successful in the
fresh soup business.
Its completed facility integration should generate meaningful margin improvements by the end of fiscal 2020. The
company has moved production from its Nashville, Portland, and Morgan Hill facilities into its recently acquired
Everett facility as part of the Harry's acquisition. In addition, the company transitioned the plant onto its own
enterprise resource planning (ERP) system from the former Campbell ERP system. We expect at least 100 bps of
EBITDA margin improvement once integration costs roll off and savings are realized by the end of fiscal 2020.
However, in 2019, due to gradual volume ramp-up, added inventory complexities, and value-added downstream
services, the plant will run at sub-optimal levels until appropriate labor is trained and hired by year-end 2019.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 16, 2019 2

KC Culinarte Intermediate LLC

Outlook : Stable

The stable outlook reflects our expectation for the facility consolidation to result in substantial savings over the
next 12 months, such that leverage is reduced to the mid- to high-5x area and free cash generation substantially
increases above $30 million. It also incorporates our expectation for leverage to be managed between 5x-6x as the
company and its financial sponsor owners execute on its acquisitive growth strategy.

Downside scenario
We could lower the rating if the company incurs greater-than-expected costs and does not realize sufficient savings
from its facility consolidation, or a decline in discretionary spending results in declining profitability and negative
free operating cash flow. We could also lower the rating if the company adopts a more aggressive financial policy
through additional debt-financed acquisitions or dividends that lead to a debt-to-EBITDA ratio sustained above
7.0x.

Upside scenario
Although we are unlikely to raise the ratings over the next year, we may do so if the company achieves most of its
consolidation goals, expands its product portfolio and customer base, and demonstrates a more conservative
financial policy by reducing its debt-to-EBITDA ratio below 5x sustainably.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 16, 2019 3

KC Culinarte Intermediate LLC

Assumptions

• Pro forma revenue of over $400 million for fiscal 2019. Thereafter, we forecast revenue growth in the mid-single
digits, as our 2020 forecasted U.S. GDP growth slows to 1.8%. Revenue growth in 2019 is mainly driven by
contributions from the Harry's acquisition, strong performance in the retail segment (reflecting new customer
wins), cross-selling with existing customers, and continued growth in the foodservice channel.
• Adjusted EBITDA margins in the 16.0%-18.0% range in 2019 and 2020. These margins are lower than 2018
levels of roughly 19.3%, mainly due to plant consolidation costs and higher freight and input cost inflation, partly
offset by lower selling, general, and administrative (SG&A) spending and realized acquisition synergies
• Total capital expenditure (capex) of about $10 million in 2019, mainly related to ongoing maintenance capital
expenditures and improvements in the Everett facility. We expect capex of $10 million in 2020 and thereafter to
support the growing business and larger asset base.
• Minimal free operating cash flow in 2019 as the company incurs consolidation costs and related capital
expenditures. We project free operating cash flow of over $30 million in 2020, and we expect it to grow as the
company improves profitability through realization of facility consolidation benefits and sales growth.
• Annual term loan amortization of $5.5 million.
• We expect the company to continue making tuck-in acquisitions given its acquisitive history and financial
sponsor ownership, though we have not modeled any at this time.
Based on our assumptions, we forecast the following ratios:
• Adjusted leverage of about 6.1x in 2019, improving to 5.0x-5.5x in 2020.
• Funds from operations (FFO) to debt in the 9.5%-11.5% range in 2019 and 2020.
• EBITDA to interest of 2.0x-2.5x in 2019 and 2020.

Base-case projections
Consolidating operations into the Everett facility is fueling margin expansion and free operating cash flow generation in
the medium-term. The Everett facility has sufficient capacity and state-of-the-art equipment to absorb volumes from
the Morgan Hill, Nashville, and Portland facilities, driving significant operating leverage and delivering cost savings of
at least $20 million in 2020. To complete the transition, the company will incur one-time payments related to
employee severance, retention, and relocation payments. In addition, the company will invest over $1 million at its
Everett facility to support production of certain items transferred into the facility. As such, we expect near-term costs
and excess capacity to result in fiscal 2019 leverage of above 6x, before at least $20 million in cost savings and
rightsizing of manufacturing footprint drive leverage to mid-5x in fiscal 2020.
Minimal free cash generation in 2019. The company has working capital needs of below $10 million and amortization
payments of less than $5.5 million in fiscal 2019. Subsequently, we expect free cash flow of over $30 million in 2020
due to the roll-off of facility consolidation costs and realization of integration savings.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 16, 2019 4

KC Culinarte Intermediate LLC

Company Description
KC Culinarte is a national private-label soup and sauce company with a growing presence in other kettle-cooked
products. KC Culinarte was created through the combination of Kettle Cuisine Inc., a fresh prepared foods private-label
platform, providing artisanal "clean label" soups sauces, and dishes across the United States, and Bonewerks Culinarte
Inc., a provider of all-natural sauce foundations and sous vide entrées in 2018. The company acquired Harry's Fresh
Foods, a contract manufacturer of fresh and better-for-you soups, in early 2019. Financial sponsor Kainos Capital owns
the majority of the company.

Business Risk : Weak
KC Culinarte is the only national supplier of refrigerated soups. The company has a narrow product focus, generating
over half of its sales through refrigerated soups. Despite the fast growth of the refrigerated soup market, it is a niche
segment of the overall soup market, comprising only 9% of the market in 2018 (Source: Euromonitor). Although the
company is a private-label manufacturer, it operates in the premium segment of the soup market, allowing it to
generate stronger EBITDA margins in the low-20% area than typical private-label food manufacturers, which have
adjusted EBITDA margins in the low teens. The company has a high fixed-cost base and made $36 million in capital
investments over the past two years to support growth. While strong industry dynamics currently drive higher volumes
and strong operating leverage, in a market downturn or slowing segment growth, sustained capacity underutilization
will result in an inflated cost structure, leading to rapid decline in EBITDA margins.
As the company generates close to half of its revenues through the foodservice channel, Kettle Cuisine would be
particularly susceptible to a slowing economy and lower consumer discretionary spending, though it has been
diversifying increasingly into mass and club retail channels. The company has a diverse supplier base, with its top ten
suppliers representing less than 30% of supply spending. However, it sources its own raw materials so it does not
benefit from pass-through pricing with customers. Despite this, the company has been able to push through pricing
with customers and adjust recipes to offset commodity pressures.

Financial Risk : Highly leveraged
We forecast leverage to decline to 6.1x at the end of fiscal 2019, from 6.2x for the 12 months ended June 30, 2019,
driven by growth in the base Kettle Cuisine business. We forecast leverage to decline to mid-5x in 2020 as realization
of cost savings through facility consolidation drive significant EBITDA expansion. We expect minimal free cash flow
generation in fiscal 2019 due to facility consolidation costs and capital expenditures of $10 million related to facility
upgrades. While we expect the company to continue making tuck-in acquisitions funded at least partially through debt,
we do not anticipate these transactions will materially increase leverage and have not modeled any in at this time.
We expect financial sponsor Kainos Capital to continue maintaining an aggressive financial policy, as evidenced by the
pace of acquisitions KC Culinarte has been making. Though we expect the company's near-term focus to be on
integrating Harry's and achieving scale at its new facility, we do expect the company to continue making debt-funded

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 16, 2019 5

KC Culinarte Intermediate LLC

tuck-in acquisitions and maintaining leverage of 5x or above.

Liquidity : Adequate
We believe the company will have adequate liquidity during the next 12 months, with sources exceeding uses by more
than 2.2x. We expect net sources to be positive even with a 30% drop in EBITDA. While the company's ratio of
sources to uses would qualify for a more favorable liquidity assessment, we do not believe the company could
withstand a low-probability, high-impact event (such as sustained downtime in a production facility) without the need
for refinancing because of its high leverage. As a speculative-grade debt issuer, KC Culinarte has sound relationships
with its banks, in our view. We also believe the company is unlikely to sustain stronger liquidity over the long term
because of possible acquisitions or dividend payments to its sponsor owner.
Principal Liquidity Sources
• Cash on the balance sheet of $7.1 million as of June 29, 2019.
• Full availability of $50 million under its revolving credit facility maturing in 2023; and
• Cash FFO of at least $40 million in the next 12 months.
Principal Liquidity Uses
• Annual capital expenditures of $10 million for maintenance and growth;
• Mandatory annual first-lien term loan including incremental term loan amortization of $5.5 million; and
• Peak working capital needs of about $30-$32 million during the fourth quarter, in preparation for its peak selling
season in the winter. We expect the company to meet its working capital needs with internally generated cash flows
and not rely on its revolving credit facility.

Covenant Analysis
The revolving credit agreement is governed by a springing maximum first-lien net leverage ratio of 7.4x with no
step-down that becomes effective when availability is less than 35% of the commitment. The first-lien term loan does
not have any financial maintenance covenants. We do not expect the company to trigger the springing covenant.

Issue Ratings--Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
The debt structure consists of:
• $50 million revolving credit facility due in 2023
• $266 million first-lien term loan due in 2025
• $69 million second-lien term loan due in 2026

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 16, 2019 6

KC Culinarte Intermediate LLC

• $16.6 million incremental first-lien term loan facility due in 2025
• $25 million paid-in-kind (PIK) junior debt (unrated)
KC Culinarte Intermediate is the borrower of the senior secured facilities. Guarantors include direct parent KC
Culinarte Corp. (unrated) and all existing and future domestic subsidiaries of the borrower. The first-lien facility is
secured by a perfected first-priority security interest in all existing assets of the borrower and guarantors and a pledge
of the stock of the borrower. Following the acquisition of Harry's, the company's capital structure includes $25 million
PIK debt that is ranked junior to all other debt.

Simulated default assumptions
Our simulated default scenario assumes a payment default in 2022 from revenue declines due to increased
competition, or a material deterioration in operating performance as a result of a very weak economy and lower
discretionary spending, or a major disruption in a production facility. A combination of these factors could result in
lower revenue and cash flow. As a result, the company may find itself having to fund cash flow shortfalls with available
cash and revolver borrowings. We believe the company would be reorganized rather than liquidated under a default
scenario. We have therefore valued the company as a going concern, using a 5x emergence multiple.
• Year of default: 2022
• EBITDA at emergence: $42.7 million
• Implied enterprise value multiple: 5x

Simplified waterfall
Our emergence level EBITDA of $42.7 million takes into consideration a 25% operational rebound on top of the
default-level EBITDA, reflecting a likely rebound following a sustained economic downturn or disruption in a
production facility. The default EBITDA roughly reflects fixed charge requirements of about $30.3 million in debt
service and $3.9 million in minimal capital expenditures assumed at default.
Calculation of EBITDA at emergence:
• Debt service: $30.3 million (default year interest plus amortization)
• Maintenance capital expenditures: $3.9 million
• Operational adjustment: 25%
• Emergence EBITDA: $42.7 million
Simplified waterfall
• Emergence EBITDA: $42.7 million
• Multiple: 5x
• Gross recovery value: $214 million
• Net recovery value for waterfall after administrative expenses (5%): $203 million

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 16, 2019 7

KC Culinarte Intermediate LLC

• Obligor/non-obligor valuation split: 100%/0%
• Estimated first-lien claims: $317.7 million
• Collateral value available to secured debt: $203 million
• Recovery range for first-lien claims: 50%-70% (rounded estimate: 60%)

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B/Stable/--

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Low
• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: b
Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: FS-6 (no additional impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, July 1, 2019
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, April 1, 2019
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - Recovery: Methodology: Jurisdiction Ranking Assessments, Jan. 20, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Branded Nondurables Industry, May 7, 2015
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 16, 2019 8

KC Culinarte Intermediate LLC

• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Business Risk Profile
Excellent
Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

Ratings Detail (As Of September 16, 2019)*
KC Culinarte Intermediate, LLC
Issuer Credit Rating

B/Stable/--

Senior Secured

B

Issuer Credit Ratings History
08-Aug-2018

B/Stable/--

Related Entities
KC Culinarte Holdings LP
Issuer Credit Rating

B/Stable/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 16, 2019 9

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 16, 2019 10

