Asbury Automotive Group Inc.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Lawrence Orlowski, CFA, New York (1) 212-438-7800; lawrence.orlowski@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Environmental, Social, And Governance
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 21, 2019 1

Asbury Automotive Group Inc.
Business Risk: SATISFACTORY

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

bb+

bb+

bb+
BB+/Stable/--

Financial Risk: SIGNIFICANT
Highly leveraged

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key strengths

Key risks

Resilient business model with diverse revenue streams. Competitive pricing environment.
Lean operating cost structure.

Some exposure to cyclical new vehicle sales.

Consistent free operating cash flow.

Less geographically diverse than larger public peers.

Asbury Automotive Group Inc.'s business model has diverse revenue streams, which should partially offset the risk of a
decline in new car sales. As an auto retailer, Asbury's revenue sources include sales of new and used vehicles, parts
and services, and finance and insurance products. While most revenue comes from vehicle sales, parts and services
(P&S) contributes over 45% of gross profit. This model has the beneficial effect of providing recurring revenue and acts
as a stabilizing force, which is especially helpful during economic downturns.
Asbury has a lean cost structure and is well positioned to navigate profit pressures arising from declining vehicle
demand or the effect of rising prices. Selling, general, and administrative (SG&A) expenses as a percentage of gross
profit were 68% in the second quarter, the lowest among rated public auto retailers. In that quarter, the company
benefited from favorable business mix, volume growth, and lower costs from omnichannel initiatives. However,
increased omnichannel investments will likely raise SG&A expenses in the second half of 2019. Still, the company's
efficient cost structure will help it navigate declining new vehicle demand due to falling consumer confidence or
original equipment manufacturer (OEM) incentives. Moreover, increasingly competitive wage rates to compete for
trained technicians could limit sales and compress margins for the profitable P&S business.
The company has pursued a prudent mergers and acquisitions strategy.Management has a track record of making
acquisitions that can deliver comparable operating margins and be purchased at reasonable prices. The focus is not on
size for its own sake, but the return to shareholders.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 21, 2019 2

Asbury Automotive Group Inc.

Outlook: Stable

Our stable outlook on Asbury reflects our assumption that its current level of profitability is sustainable, its debt
leverage will remain below 4x, and that its free operating cash flow (FOCF)-to-debt ratio will stay above 10%.

Downside scenario
We could lower our rating if we believe Asbury's profitability will decline, reflecting an unexpected negative trend
in its business operations. We could also lower the rating if, for instance, higher-than-expected capital spending on
dealer upgrades leads Asbury's FOCF-to-debt ratio to fall below 10% on a sustained basis, or if the company
increases its debt leverage above 4x to fund a dividend payout, share repurchase, or acquisitions.

Upside scenario
Asbury would need to maintain debt leverage of 3x or less and an FOCF-to-debt ratio of 15% or better for us to
raise our rating. We would also need to believe the company would employ a moderate financial policy going
forward that balances shareholder expectations for revenue growth (and share repurchases) with the credit quality
consistent with a higher rating.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 21, 2019 3

Asbury Automotive Group Inc.

Assumptions

• U.S. sales of new light vehicles of 16.7 million units
in 2019 and 16.5 million units in 2020, partly
because of falling used car prices. This is somewhat
offset by low U.S. unemployment and an average
vehicle age of over 11 years.
• The U.S. economy continues its slow and steady
recovery, with a baseline forecast of 2.5% GDP
growth in 2019 and 1.8% in 2020.

Key Metrics

2018A

2019E

2020E

2021E

Debt to EBITDA (x)

2.8 3.0-3.5 3.0-3.5 3.0-3.5

EBITDA margin (%)

5.1 4.5-5.0 4.5-5.0 4.5-5.0

FOCF to debt (%)

21.4

15-20

10-15

10-15

A--Actual. E--Estimated. FOCF--Free operating cash
flow.

• Revenue growth between 0% and 5% for 2019 and
2020.
• Capital expenditures between 1% and 2% of revenue
annually.
• Acquisitions of dealerships and real estate of $75
million-$100 million in 2019, funded with FOCF, the
revolving acquisition credit line, or mortgage debt.
• Reported FOCF of over $100 million or more
annually.
• Share repurchases of about $50 million in 2019.

Base-case projections
Our base-case projections for 2019 and 2020 assume debt to EBITDA metric at or below 3.0x and FOCF to debt
between 10% and 15%.

Company Description
Asbury is one of the largest automotive retailers in the U.S, owning and operating 105 new vehicle franchises at 86
dealership locations and 24 collision centers.

Business Risk: Satisfactory
Although Asbury's P&S business generated only 11.9% of its revenue in 2018, it contributed 46.8% of the company's
gross profits. In addition, while the firm's finance and insurance (F&I) segment generated just 4.3% of its 2017 revenue,
it generated 26.5% of its gross profits. On the other hand, new and used vehicle sales were responsible for 55.1% and
28.7% of Asbury's 2018 sales, but contributed only 15.0% and 11.7% of gross profits, respectively. While the
company's new and used vehicle sales segments are more volatile and have lower margins, the recurring nature of its
P&S and F&I sales and their higher margins help mitigate the impact of industry downturns.
The key economic factors for automotive retailers, particularly new vehicle unit sales, include general economic

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 21, 2019 4

Asbury Automotive Group Inc.

conditions such as consumer confidence, consumer discretionary spending levels, interest rates, fuel prices,
unemployment rates, and consumer credit availability. Luxury brands accounted for about 33% of Asbury's 2018 new
vehicle sales and we believe luxury vehicle buyers are less sensitive to overall economic conditions than buyers of
mid-line import and domestic vehicles. The company's significant luxury sales mix somewhat mitigates the effect of
economic downturns. Non-luxury imports were 47% of sales, and domestic models accounted for 20%.
At the same time, Asbury, like other auto retailers, has weak pricing power because it depends on a few large
manufacturers and operates in the fragmented and competitive U.S. light vehicle marketplace. Moreover, the
company's operations are concentrated in the southern U.S., which adds some operating risk because Florida accounts
for about 36% of the company's new vehicle sales.
Increases in U.S. new light vehicle sales benefit retailers because increased showroom traffic boosts both vehicle sales
and F&I revenues, and eventually benefits their highly profitable P&S businesses. New vehicle traffic also often
provides retailers with trade-in vehicles to sell.
Asbury has invested in online capabilities and digital marketing to improve the customer buying experience. In the
past few years, the company has launched online sales tools that allow customers to buy a vehicle and select financing
alternatives from several lenders. It has also created a guest experience center where sales specialists manage
customer interactions either online or by telephone. Service kiosks speed up the buying process and customers can
track their sales process online.

Financial Risk: Significant
Our assessment of Asbury's financial risk reflects our view that the company will generate positive discretionary free
cash flow in 2019 and 2020. We expect Asbury will have manageable capital spending and working capital needs,
combined with tightly controlled SG&A, which should allow it to consistently generate cash.
We expect Asbury's management to pursue a financial policy that balances business expansion and shareholder
returns against the need to maintain leverage appropriate for the rating. As of year-end 2018, Asbury had a
debt-to-EBITDA metric of 2.8x and an FOCF-to-debt ratio of over 21.4%. Our base-case projections assume the
company's debt-to-EBITDA metric will stay around 3.0x and FOCF-to-debt ratio will remain between 10% and 15% in
2019 and 2020.
Auto retailers make heavy use of floorplan loans to finance their vehicle inventory. We consider auto retailers'
floorplan borrowings as more akin to trade payables than to debt because of the borrowings' indefinite maturities, high
loan-to-value ratios, widespread availability, and long-established manufacturer subsidies that largely offset borrowing
costs. As a result, we believe Asbury's discretionary and periodic use of cash to pay down its floorplan borrowings to
reduce its interest expense could cause operating cash flow to turn negative.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 21, 2019 5

Asbury Automotive Group Inc.

Liquidity: Adequate
We view Asbury's liquidity as adequate. Our assessment incorporates the following expectations and assumptions:
• We expect the company's sources of liquidity, including cash and facility availability, to exceed uses by 1.2x or more
over the next 12-18 months;
• We expect the company's net sources to remain positive even if its EBITDA declines by as much as 15%;
• Compliance with financial covenants could survive a 15% drop in EBITDA, in our view; and
• Because of Asbury's diverse revenue stream and highly variable cost structure, we believe that it could absorb a low
probability, high-impact event with limited need for financing.

Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Availability of about $187.5 million under its $900
million new vehicle floor plan facility;

• About $60 million of annual capital expenditures in
2019 through 2020, excluding the purchase of real
estate, which we view as manageable because most
of the spending is for dealer store upgrades;

• Availability under its used vehicle floorplan facility
($150 million) subject to $116.2 million borrowing
base;
• Availability totaling $47.3 million under its $250
million revolving credit facility for acquisitions,
working capital, and general corporate purposes,
after accounting for $12.7 million letters of credit
and $190 million currently designated to its new
vehicle floor plan facility;
• Cash and cash equivalents of $9.6 million and a
floorplan offset account balance of $87.4 million,
which we view as fairly liquid because this cash is
available to Asbury upon request within two days;

• Share repurchases totaling over $50 million in 2019
and no shareholder dividend payments;
• We estimate Asbury will spend about $100
million-$150 million to acquire dealerships in 2019;
and
• We expect Asbury, which now owns over 70% of its
stores, will continue to buy out leases on an
opportunistic basis.

• We believe Asbury can generate FOCF of over $150
million in 2019;
• We do not expect any significant cash from future
asset sales to bolster cash balances or reduce debt;
and
• We assume proceeds from any dealership sales will
likely be reinvested in acquiring new dealerships.

Covenant Analysis

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 21, 2019 6

Asbury Automotive Group Inc.

Compliance expectations
Asbury was in compliance with the covenants under its credit facilities as of June 30, 2019, and we expect that it will
remain so through 2019 and into 2020.

Requirements
The covenants on the company's credit facilities include a required consolidated current ratio of 1.10x or greater
through the remainder of the term of the facilities, a fixed-charge coverage ratio of greater than or equal to 1.2x, and a
total lease-adjusted leverage ratio of less than or equal to 5.75x.

Environmental, Social, And Governance

Asbury does not face the demands of designing and manufacturing vehicles that comply with air emissions
regulations, and therefore its environmental responsibilities are more circumscribed that those of automakers or
parts suppliers. Still, the company is subject to a wide range of environmental laws and regulations, including those
governing discharges into water, air emissions, and the storage and disposal of hazardous or toxic wastes.
The company requires appropriate levels of insurance to cover claims from employees, customers, and third
parties regarding personal injury and property losses arising in the course of its business. Based on available
information, we believe Asbury operates in compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations and that
there are no material liabilities that would hurt its financial performance and condition.
We see Asbury's management and governance as satisfactory, reflecting consistent operational performance and
management's demonstrated industry expertise.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
Our simulated default scenario assumes a payment default in 2024, reflecting a sustained U.S. economic downturn,
sharp increases in fuel costs leading to a pronounced shift in customer preference toward smaller vehicles, and less
attractive inventory financing terms as a result of rising interest rates and reduced interest credits from automotive
manufacturers.
Other key default assumptions include: an increase in LIBOR to 350 basis points, a 60% drawn revolver at default, and
other priority claims including mortgages and fleet financing totaling $1.1 billion at default.

Simulated default assumptions
• Simulated year of default: 2024
• EBITDA at emergence: $120 million
• EBITDA multiple: 5x

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 21, 2019 7

Asbury Automotive Group Inc.

Simplified waterfall
• Net enterprise value (after 5% administrative costs): $1.32 billion
• Valuation split (obligors/nonobligors): 100%/0%
• Priority claims: $1.18 billion
• Collateral value available to secured creditors: $137 million
• Total value available to unsecured claims: $137 million
• Structurally subordinated debt: $618 million
• --Recovery expectations: 10%-30% (rounded estimate: 20%)
All debt amounts include six months of prepetition interest. Collateral value equals asset pledge from obligors after
priority claims plus equity pledge from nonobligors after nonobligor debt.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
BB+/Stable/--

Business risk: Satisfactory

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Satisfactory
Financial risk: Significant

• Cash flow/Leverage: Significant
Anchor: bb+
Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral
• Capital structure: Neutral
• Financial policy: Neutral
• Liquidity: Adequate
• Management and governance: Satisfactory
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral
Stand-alone credit profile : bb+

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 21, 2019 8

Asbury Automotive Group Inc.

Related Criteria
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Retail And Restaurants Industry, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Business Risk Profile

Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly leveraged

Excellent

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Ratings Detail (As Of August 21, 2019)*
Asbury Automotive Group Inc.
Issuer Credit Rating

BB+/Stable/--

Subordinated

BB

Issuer Credit Ratings History
02-Jun-2015

BB+/Stable/--

14-Apr-2014

BB/Positive/--

14-Mar-2013

BB/Stable/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 21, 2019 9

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 21, 2019 10

