Cox Enterprises Inc.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Chris Mooney, CFA, New York (1) 212-438-4240; chris.mooney@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Allyn Arden, CFA, New York (1) 212-438-7832; allyn.arden@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Subordination Risk Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 1

Cox Enterprises Inc.
Business Risk: SATISFACTORY

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

bbb

bbb

bbb

BBB/Stable/A-2

Financial Risk: INTERMEDIATE
Highly leveraged

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key Strengths

Key Risks

Above average broadband penetration levels that provide good revenue
visibility.

Longer-term regulatory uncertainty surrounding Title II and potential
for price regulation.

High barriers to entry given capital spending requirements and rights of
way.

Longer-term competition from wireless players offering 5G fixed
broadband services.

Increasing demand for broadband presents opportunities to increase
earnings for next several years

Auto segment more susceptible to macroeconomic pressure than
cable unit.

Relatively conservative financial policy, with debt to EBITDA below 3x.

Profits from the lower-margin video segment are under pressure.

Strong liquidity position enabled by solid FOCF generation and low
dividend to the Cox family.

We view Cox Enterprise Inc.'s (CEI's) proposed sale of its broadcast TV and radio stations to Apollo favorably. We
believe the broadcasting business lacked the scale necessary to compete effectively and did not provide any
meaningful synergies to its cable unit, while the radio business was in secular decline. By removing them, CEI
management can sharpen its focus on the growing cable and auto businesses. Furthermore, we expect the company to
pay down debt with proceeds in a manner that is at least leverage neutral.
We expect high-margin broadband revenue will continue to grow at a healthy rate for the next three years, driven by a
combination of price increases and subscriber growth. As broadband becomes increasingly important in the lives of
consumers, we believe demand for faster internet to stream video on multiple devices will allow CEI to raise prices as
customers migrate to faster speed tiers. We also believe CEI will continue building its subscriber base from a
combination of increasing homes passed of about 1%-2% per year, increasing consumer broadband adoption, and
market share gains from telco competition using copper-based infrastructure with inferior speeds, though these
opportunities are dwindling.
We believe the impact of video cord cutting on earnings and cash will be modest for several reasons. We do not forecast
a significant acceleration in video losses because competing live streaming services primarily target customers outside
the traditional ecosystem, most early adopters have likely already signed up, and the savings gap will narrow as prices
increase for alternatives. Second, video makes up a much smaller percentage of total earnings than it has historically.
Finally, CEI's broadband service provides a powerful pricing counterbalance by charging a premium for stand-alone

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 2

Cox Enterprises Inc.

broadband and then inducing a portion of cord-cutters to buy faster broadband tiers.
We expect the company will maintain a financial policy consistent with keeping debt to EBITDA below 3x. We believe
the family is committed to the current rating, employing a conservative approach to capital deployment with a modest
ongoing dividend. We believe bolt-on acquisitions are likely, particularly in environmentally friendly areas, but large
scale M&A would be funded with a balanced mix of debt and equity. This is consistent with the company's track
record, as leverage rose above 3x briefly in 2016 to fund the acquisition of Dealertrack.

Outlook: Stable

The stable outlook reflects good revenue visibility from CEI's cable unit, coupled with our expectation that the
company will maintain a moderate financial policy such that debt to EBITDA remains in the mid-2x area over the
next two to three years.

Downside scenario
Although unlikely over the next two years, we could lower the ratings if debt-financed acquisitions cause leverage
to rise above 3x on a sustained basis or increase its exposure to businesses with less favorable risk characteristics.

Upside scenario
While unlikely over the next two years given the maturity and secular trends of the cable unit, coupled with our
less favorable business risk assessments of the company's non-cable segments, we could raise the ratings if CEI
reduces leverage to below 2x on a sustained basis and maintains a financial policy to keep leverage at this level for
the long term.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 3

Cox Enterprises Inc.

Assumptions

• Real GDP growth of 2.5% in 2019 and 1.8% in 2020,
supports continued growth in residential broadband
subscribers and commercial services;
• Cable revenue growth of 2%-4% per year as HSD
revenue growth of 7%-9% is offset by relatively flat
video revenue trends.

Key Metrics

2018A
Revenue growth (%)
EBITDA margins, reported (%)
Debt to EBITDA (x)
FOCF/Debt (%)

2019E

2020E

2.8

(1)-1

(2)-(4)

26.6

29-31

30-32

2.8 2.1-2.5 2.0-2.4
16.4

10-15

12-17

• Broadband subscribers increase 2%-3% per year
while ARPU increases about 5-7% as customers
move to faster tiers.
• Residential video connections decline 4%-6% over
the next two years primarily because of competitive
pressures from streaming alternatives as well as
maturing product conditions;
• Commercial revenue increases in the high
single-digit percent area due to increased
penetration and growth from wireless backhaul;
• Cable EBITDA margin remains around 34%-35% as
growth in high-margin residential broadband
revenue is offset by declining video margins
stemming from rising programming costs;
• Revenue from Cox Automotive is relatively flat as
growth in Manheim is offset by lower advertising
revenue and international softness; and
• Sale of media business is assumed to occur at the
end of 2019 with proceeds used for a combination of
debt reduction and a special dividend

Base-case projections
EBITDA margins should improve from a combination of improvement in the automotive business and the divestiture of
its lower-margin media properties. Share losses in the high-margin Autotrader advertising business and a shift from
highly-profitable Manheim buy/sell fees to less profitable ancillary auction services caused EBITDA margins in the
automotive business to fall to about 13% in 2018 (from a range of about 17%-20% from 2014-2017). We project
margins will rebound to 14%-15% through 2020 as the company grows new digital mobility markets, although this
segment is more volatile than the cable business. We also project the media business is sold at the end of 2019,
resulting in a more favorable business mix in 2020.
Our adjusted credit metrics include adjustments for operating lease, post-retirement obligations, and captive finance
operations:
• Our operating lease adjustment adds about $1.6 billion in debt and about $600 million to EBITDA for the interest
and depreciation component of rent expense.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 4

Cox Enterprises Inc.

• We factor in the captive finance operations of Cox Auto subsidiary Nextgear, which provides financing services
including lending for dealers. We estimate our captive finance adjustment reduces debt by about $4.7 billion and
EBITDA by about $400 million.
• Tax-adjusted unfunded pensions and post-retirement obligations add around $1.7 billion to reported debt and about
$140 million in EBITDA to reflect only the service cost component of pension expense.

Company Description
Atlanta-based CEI is the third-largest cable provider in the U.S. with more than 5.8 million customer relationships,
passing more than 10 million homes. Cox Auto is one of the largest providers of inventory, software, financing, and
marketing services for auto dealers in the U.S. with more than 25 brands.

Business Risk: Satisfactory
We base our assessment on CEI's cable business, which is its largest revenue and EBITDA contributor, tempered by
the comparatively weaker business risk of Cox Automotive. The cable unit is in the second tier of cable operators in
terms of size, after Comcast Corp. and Charter Communications Inc., and benefits from scale economies and
geographic diversity. Its subscription-based business model enables good revenue visibility, and fairly predictable,
growth-driven cable capital spending.
CEI benefits from what we view as a sustainable competitive advantage in most of its markets, with the ability to offer
much faster internet than its primary competition, typically consisting of the incumbent phone company offering
services over copper wire. CEI overlaps with AT&T (45% of its footprint), CenturyLink (35%), and Verizon (17%),
which have deployed fiber to homes in select markets where it is economical to do so. Therefore, CEI has
industry-leading broadband penetration of 52%, which is modestly higher than scaled incumbent cable peers in the
47% to 50% range.
Competition could intensify over a longer term with 5G fixed wireless technology, but strategies vary by operator:
• Verizon plans to pass about 30 million homes within the next five to eight years with speeds of up to 1Gbps,
targeting 20%-30% penetration. The company has launched in a handful of markets and is pricing at a competitive
$50 bundled with wireless. The strategy is targeted primarily at densely populated markets. We estimate only about
25% of CEI's customers come from the top 25 markets, but 60% come from the top 50 that Verizon could eventually
enter.
• T-Mobile plans to cover more than 50% of U.S. homes with speeds of at least 100 Mbps by 2024, aiming for 9.5
million customers using aggressive pricing in more rural markets.
• AT&T has not quantified its plans but that the 5G standard will evolve over the next three to five years into a fixed
broadband replacement.
If wireless operators successfully executing these plans, we believe the primary risk to cable operators could be the
ability to monetize increasing data traffic with a lower-priced competitor in the market. However, we recognize there is

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 5

Cox Enterprises Inc.

a lot of uncertainty around 5G fixed wireless technology. More specifically:
• The technology has yet to be demonstrated at scale. Verizon's strategy is predicated on using mmWave spectrum
that is capable of delivering the types of speeds and low latency that can compete with cable but it doesn't travel far
and there are questions around its ability to penetrate materials.
• T-Mobile's plan is contingent upon buying Sprint, which is still uncertain. Sprint owns a lot of good mid-band
spectrum that would deliver lower performance than mmWave but has better coverage characteristics. If the deal is
blocked by state AG's, it is unclear what T-Mobile's fixed wireless strategy would be.
• Adding in-home broadband customers could put strain on wireless networks that are primarily designed for
mobility.
CEI continues to invest in video despite industry headwinds from shifting technology, changing consumer preferences,
and rising programming costs. The service is still profitable but will increasingly be used as a retention tool to help sell
broadband subscriptions. Recently, cord-cutting has accelerated with CEI losing video subscribers at a rate of 6.5%
year over year in the second quarter of 2019. While CEI benefits from licensing leading user interface technology from
Comcast, we believe this trend will continue over the next year, particularly as consumers share passwords for
streaming video alternatives. Still, we believe video losses represent a manageable credit risk given the lower
contribution to earnings and cash flow.
The company derives good business diversity from its automotive group, which includes the Manheim auto auction
business, dealer inventory financing (NextGear), Autotrader, and Kelly Blue Book. Acquisitions have expanded CEI's
reach beyond auctions into vehicle transportation and financing, although we view this segment's performance as
susceptible to macroeconomic conditions. Autotrader has been negatively affected by competition from Cars.com
recently, which has hurt profitability. Conversely, Nextgear has benefitted from a low interest rate environment, which
is likely to continue for the near term. Dealertrack Technologies automotive software solutions allow for certain cross
selling opportunities to capture share in the auto services market. We believe CEI will drive future growth in this
segment through tuck-in acquisitions as well as additional securitizations of floorplan receivables, which allows it to
finance dealer borrowings.

Peer comparison
• We believe Comcast and Charter have a stronger business profile because of their larger size and geographic
diversity, which enable programming procurement benefits, greater investments in technology, and an ability to
offer new services such as wireless.
• Altice USA is a similarly-sized incumbent cable company that we view slightly more favorably given its very high
profit margins (44% versus 35% for CEI's cable unit) and improving subscriber trends from investments in the
network. CEI has higher broadband penetration (52% versus 47%) but lower video penetration (38% versus 34%)
than Altice.
• We view CEI's business more favorably than Cable One and WideOpenWest (WoW) due to significantly higher
penetration levels at CEI, albeit for different reasons. WoW is an overbuilder that operates in more competitive
markets whereas Cable One has opted to stop investing in its video product due to its small size and tight video
margins.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 6

Cox Enterprises Inc.

Financial Risk: Intermediate
We expect growth in high-margin broadband to result in cable earnings growth of about 4%-5% over the next two
years, slightly below the industry average due to its more mature footprint. We also expect the company to generate
about $1.5 billion - $2.0 billion in FOCF each of the next two years. This is down from $2.6 billion in 2018 primarily
because of moderately higher capital spending on network improvements and timing related to working capital and
other items. We expect this cash flow will be used for a combination of dividends, tuck-in acquisitions, and debt
reduction such that leverage remains between 2x and 3x.

Liquidity: Strong
We view CEI's liquidity as strong. We expect sources of liquidity to exceed uses by at least 1.5x and for net sources to
remain positive, even with a 30% decline relative to our base-case forecast.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Cash of about $500 million as of June 30, 2019;

• Annual capital expenditures of about $2.6 billion $2.8 billion;

• About $3.1 billion available, net of commercial paper
backup, under the $3.5 billion joint Cox
Enterprises/Cox Communications revolving credit
facility due 2023;
• Annual FFO of about $4.5 billion; and

• Debt maturities of about $900 million over the next
12 months; and
• Annual dividends to the family of about $400
million.

• About $2 billion in net proceeds from divestitures.

Covenant Analysis
Compliance expectations
We expect CEI's restricted units (Cox Auto and Cox Media) and CCI will maintain at least a 30% EBITDA cushion.

Requirements
CCI and CEI's restricted units (Cox Auto and Cox Media) have maximum total leverage covenants of 5x.

Issue Ratings - Subordination Risk Analysis
Capital structure
CEI's capital structure consists of about $12 billion of debt, almost all of which is at its operating subsidiaries Cox
Communications and Cox Auto. There is about $255 million of debt at the parent level.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 7

Cox Enterprises Inc.

Analytical conclusions
• We rate CCI's unsecured debt 'BBB' in-line with the issuer credit rating as there is no material subordination to other
obligations.
• We rate CEI's unsecured debt one notch below the issuer credit rating at 'BBB-' since this debt is structurally
subordinated to debt issued at operating subsidiaries.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
BBB/Stable/A-2

Business risk: Satisfactory

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Satisfactory
Financial risk: Intermediate

• Cash flow/Leverage: Intermediate
Anchor: bbb
Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: Neutral (no impact)
• Liquidity: Strong (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)
Stand-alone credit profile : bbb

• Group credit profile: bbb

Related Criteria
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Reflecting Subordination Risk In Corporate Issue Ratings, Sept. 21, 2017
• General Criteria: Methodology For Linking Long-Term And Short-Term Ratings, April 7, 2017
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology: The Impact Of Captive Finance Operations On Nonfinancial
Corporate Issuers, Dec. 14, 2015
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 8

Cox Enterprises Inc.

• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Telecommunications And Cable Industry, June 22,
2014
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Business Risk Profile

Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly leveraged

Excellent

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

Ratings Detail (As Of September 10, 2019)*
Cox Enterprises Inc.
Issuer Credit Rating

BBB/Stable/A-2

Commercial Paper
Local Currency
Senior Unsecured

A-2
BBB-

Issuer Credit Ratings History
04-May-2017

BBB/Stable/A-2

15-Jun-2015

BBB/Negative/A-2

04-Aug-2011

BBB/Stable/A-2

Related Entities
Cox Communications Inc.
Issuer Credit Rating

BBB/Stable/NR

Senior Unsecured

BBB

TCA Cable TV Inc.
Senior Unsecured

BBB

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 9

Cox Enterprises Inc.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 10

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 11

