New Issue: MHF DKF Insurance Trust
$6. 38 million taxable variable-rate notes series 2019
Primary Credit Analyst:
John C Mante, Chicago (1) 312-233-7058; john.mante@spglobal.com
Research Assistant:
Bala Ramanujam, New York

Table Of Contents
Rationale
Transaction Highlights And Structural Analysis
Rating Sensitivity
Related Criteria
Related Research

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 1

New Issue: MHF DKF Insurance Trust
$6. 38 million taxable variable-rate notes series 2019
Ratings Detail
New Rating
Series Rating
2019

AA+/A-1+

Amount (mil. $)
6.38

Profile
Closing date

Aug. 15, 2019.

Maturity date

Aug. 1, 2039.

Structure type

Full support, direct-pay LOC supported by a CLOC.

Obligor

MHF DKF Insurance Trust.

FLOC provider

Affiliated Bank N.A.

CLOC provider

Federal Home Loan Bank of Dallas (rating dependency(i)).

Trustee

Synovus Bank

Remarketing agent

The Frazer Lanier Co. Inc.

(i)S&P Global Ratings' credit rating on the notes is linked to the higher of its ratings on the CLOC and FLOC providers. LOC--Letter of credit.
FLOC--Fronting letter of cedit. CLOC--Confirming letter of cedit.

Rationale
S&P Global Ratings assigned its 'AA+/A-1+' rating to MHF DKF Insurance Trust's $6.38 million taxable variable-rate
notes series 2019 due Aug. 1, 2039.
The 'AA+/A-1+' rating on the notes reflects the higher of our ratings on the Federal Home Loan Bank of Dallas (FHLB
Dallas; 'AA+/A-1+'), the confirming letter of credit (CLOC) provider, and Affiliated Bank N.A. ('NR'), the fronting LOC
(FLOC) provider, during the weekly interest rate mode (the rated mode).
The 'AA+' long-term component of our rating reflects the higher of our long-term issuer credit ratings on FHLB Dallas
and Affiliated Bank N.A., and addresses our expectation of full and timely interest and principal payments when the
noteholders have not exercised the put option. The 'A-1+' short-term component of our rating reflects the higher of our
short-term issuer credit ratings on FHLB Dallas and Affiliated Bank N.A., and addresses our expectation of full and
timely interest and principal payments when the noteholders have exercised the put option.
The letters of credit (LOCs) cover the entire principal balance and 35 days of interest accruals at a 10% maximum note
rate. During the rated mode, we believe that the coverage amount is sufficient to pay note principal and maximum
accrued interest considering the same-day interest reinstatement period and any additional time that may elapse
before a full payment is made to the noteholders.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 2

New Issue: MHF DKF Insurance Trust

In rating this transaction, we reviewed the credit, liquidity, legal, operational, and structural matters that we believed
were relevant to our analysis, as outlined in our criteria.

Transaction Highlights And Structural Analysis
When evaluating the notes, S&P Global Ratings considered various risk factors, as described below.

Put option risks
The notes are a variable-rate issuance with a noteholder option to demand repayment before the notes mature (the put
or tender option), which is available during the rated mode. The noteholders may exercise the put option during the
rated mode with notice to the appropriate parties (e.g., the trustee or remarketing agent) according to the transaction's
terms. Those choosing to exercise their option will receive a price equal to par plus accrued interest funded by the
remarketing proceeds and, if they are insufficient, by the FLOC proceeds. If the FLOC provider defaults on a demand
for payment under the FLOC, the CLOC will fund such defaulted payments.
The CLOC provided by FHLB Dallas allows for a single draw, which would be made only if Affiliated Bank N.A. has
defaulted on payments under, or repudiated, the FLOC. We believe the risk that the CLOC could become unavailable
after a single draw is mitigated by provisions in the transaction documents that instruct the trustee to declare an
acceleration of the notes and draw on the CLOC to fund the principal and interest payable on the notes if the FLOC
provider has defaulted on any demand for payment or repudiated the FLOC.

Early termination risks
The transaction structure allows the LOCs to terminate before the notes mature. The LOC termination events include:
FLOC:
• FLOC expiration;
• FLOC replacement; or
• An event of default under the credit agreement.
CLOC:
• CLOC expiration.
If any of these events occur, the transaction documents require the trustee to draw on the LOCs and repay the notes in
full before the LOCs terminate or upon note acceleration. In these cases, we believe the coverage amount under each
LOC is sufficient in the rated mode to fully pay principal and accrued interest on the notes to the date specified in the
transaction documents.

Other early call or redemption risks
The transaction documents state that, upon certain other conditions or events, the notes may be called or redeemed.
In these cases, the transaction documents require the trustee to draw on the LOCs and repay the notes in full. We
believe the LOC coverage amount is sufficient in the rated mode to pay all principal and accrued interest on the notes

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 3

New Issue: MHF DKF Insurance Trust

to the date specified in the transaction documents.

Rating Sensitivity
In view of the note structure, changes to our rating on the notes can result from, among other things, changes to our
ratings on the LOC providers or amendments to the transaction's terms. We will maintain a rating on the notes as long
as the LOCs have not expired, replaced or otherwise terminated. If any of these condition changes, we will likely
withdraw our rating on the notes.

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Methodology And Assumptions For Analyzing Letter Of Credit-Supported Debt, Feb. 20, 2015

Related Research
• Federal Home Loan Bank of Dallas, Aug. 30, 2018
• Global Structured Finance Scenario And Sensitivity Analysis: Understanding The Effects Of Macroeconomic Factors
On Credit Quality, July 2, 2014
In addition to the criteria specific to this type of security (listed above), the following criteria articles, which are
generally applicable to all ratings, may have affected this rating action: "Counterparty Risk Framework: Methodology
And Assumptions," March 8, 2019; "Post-Default Ratings Methodology: When Does Standard & Poor's Raise A Rating
From 'D' Or 'SD'?," March 23, 2015; "Global Framework For Assessing Operational Risk In Structured Finance
Transactions," Oct. 9, 2014; "Methodology: Timeliness of Payments: Grace Periods, Guarantees, And Use of 'D' And
'SD' Ratings," Oct. 24, 2013; "Criteria For Assigning 'CCC+', 'CCC', 'CCC-', And 'CC' Ratings," Oct. 1, 2012;
"Methodology: Credit Stability Criteria," May 3, 2010; and "Use of CreditWatch And Outlooks," Sept. 14, 2009.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 4

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 5

