VetCor Acquisition LLC
Primary Credit Analyst:
Adam Dibe, Toronto + 1 (416) 507 3235; adam.dibe@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Tulip Lim, New York (1) 212-438-4061; tulip.lim@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 1

VetCor Acquisition LLC
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b

b

b

B/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key Strength

Key Risk

Attractive industry tailwinds and no reimbursement risk High adjusted leverage of 7.8x due to acquisition-driven growth strategy

Leverage remains high due to incremental debt issuances. VetCor issued a $110 million delayed-draw term loan in June
2019 to support its acquisition-driven growth strategy. This strategy has helped support double-digit percent revenue
growth but also results in high leverage, with adjusted debt to EBITDA to 7.8x as of June 30, 2019. We expect the pace
of acquisitions to stay high, requiring further debt issuances. VetCor is one of the largest operators of veterinary
practices in the U.S. and will be a consolidator, but it competes for acquisition targets with larger companies NVA
Holdings (B/Stable/--) and VCA (owned by Mars Inc.)
We continue to view the veterinary operating industry as highly attractive because of secular tailwinds, significant
consolidation opportunities to increase scale, and favorable payment dynamics. Pet ownership continues to increase in
the U.S., and owners are spending more on animal health. Approximately 89% of veterinary hospitals in the U.S. are
independently owned, providing ample targets for VetCor's acquisition-driven growth strategy. Most importantly,
veterinary services are primarily cash pay, which means that veterinary operators lack the reimbursement risk of other
health care service providers. While the discretionary nature of the spending on veterinary services could leave
companies more exposed during economic downturns, in the last recession the impact to the industry was not
dramatic.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 2

VetCor Acquisition LLC

Outlook: Stable

The stable outlook reflects our expectation that VetCor will continue to generate acquisition-driven double-digit
percentage revenue growth as well as keep stable EBITDA margins. At the same time, we expect the company's
aggressive debt-financed growth strategy to result in leverage remaining high and above 7x through 2020.

Downside scenario
We could lower the rating if VetCor's EBTIDA-to-cash-interest coverage ratio approached 1.6x. This could occur if
acquisition multiples continue to rise and the company acquires practices that perform poorly, resulting in
depressed margins and material free cash flow deterioration.

Upside scenario
Although unlikely due to sponsor ownership, we could raise the rating if the company's financial policy shifts to
focus on debt reduction, such that leverage is sustained under 5x.

Our Base-Case Scenario
Assumptions

• Mid-single-digit percentage organic revenue growth,
driven by slight volume increases and annual price
inflation.
• About $150 million of acquisition spending during
2019, contributing to at least 60 new locations and
$100 million of pro forma revenue. We expect
acquisition spending of $150 million in 2020 and
beyond, supporting total revenue increases in the
double-digit percentage area.

Key Metrics

2018A 2019E 2020E
EBITDA margin (%)

19.6

19-20

19-20

Debt to EBITDA (x)

8.2

7.8

7.6

EBITDA-to-cash interest (x)

1.9

2.1

2.1

A--Actual. E--Estimate

• Stable EBITDA margins of about 19.5%, marginally
below that of peers that operate specialty facilities;
• Minimal working capital usage; and
• Capital expenditures of about $10 million-$15
million per year.

Base-case projections
Organic revenue growth expected to be in the mid-single-digit percent range. Same-store growth is expected to expand
faster than GDP growth due to increasing spending on pet health.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 3

VetCor Acquisition LLC

Overall revenue growth is bolstered by significant acquisition spending. We expect at least $150 million in acquisition
spending per year, driving revenue growth in excess of 20%. We expect acquisition activity to be primarily funded by
further incremental debt issuances.
We expect adjusted leverage to remain high over the next few years. Following the $110 million delayed-draw term
loan issuance, adjusted leverage was 7.8x for the 12 months through June 30, 2019, and we expect it to be maintained
above 7.0x. We expect that financial policy will favor investing in growth and shareholder returns over permanent debt
reduction, keeping leverage elevated over the long term despite anticipated EBITDA growth from increased hospital
contributions. Still, we expect free cash flow generation in excess of $40 million per year.

Liquidity: Adequate
We assess VetCor's liquidity as adequate, with sources of cash exceeding uses by at least 1.2x over the next 12 months
and sources exceeding uses even if EBITDA were to decline by 15%. However, we believe that liquidity is constrained
by a likely inability to absorb high-impact, low-probability events without refinancing.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Cash balance of $8.4 million as of June 30, 2019;

• Capital expenditures of about $10 million per year
and

• Cash funds from operations of about $44 million
over the next 12 months; and

• Annual term loan amortization of about $4.5 million.

• Full availability under the $50 million revolving
credit facility.

Covenant Analysis
VetCor has a springing first-lien net leverage covenant on the revolving credit facility. The company had 37%
headroom on this covenant as of June 30, 2019, and we expect it to maintain at least 30% headroom.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• VetCor's capital structure consists of a $450 million first-lien term loan; a $195 million second-lien term loan; firstand second-lien delayed-draw term loans of $205.0 and $40.0 million, respectively; and a $50.0 million revolving
facility. All the loans have a seven-year term maturing on July, 2, 2025.
• We have valued the company on a going-concern basis using a 5.5x multiple of our projected emergence EBITDA,
which is consistent with the multiple used for similar companies.
• We estimate that for a default scenario, EBITDA would have to decline significantly from our base-case forecast,
which could be because of a prolonged economic downturn that lead to poorly performing sites and a sharp
revenue decline.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 4

VetCor Acquisition LLC

Simulated default assumptions
• Simulated year of default: 2022
• EBITDA at emergence: $75.7 million
• EBITDA multiple: 5.5x

Simplified waterfall
• Net enterprise valuation (after 5% administrative costs): $395.4 million
• Valuation split in % (obligors/nonobligors): 100%/0%
• Priority claims: 0
• Collateral value available to first-lien creditors: $395.4 million
• Secured first-lien debt: $694.6 million
• --Recovery expectations: 50%-70%; rounded estimate: 55%
• Secured second-lien debt: $245.6 million
• --Recovery expectations: 0%-10%; rounded estimate: 0%

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B/Stable/--

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: b
Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: FS-6 (no additional impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)
Stand-alone credit profile : b

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 5

VetCor Acquisition LLC

• Group credit profile: b

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Methodology For Linking Long-Term And Short-Term Ratings, April 7, 2017
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Health Care Services Industry, April 16, 2014
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Business Risk Profile
Excellent
Strong

Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Satisfactory
Fair

Ratings Detail (As Of September 10, 2019)*
VetCor Acquisition LLC
Issuer Credit Rating

B/Stable/--

Issuer Credit Ratings History
10-Jul-2018

B/Stable/--

Related Entities
Excelsior Merger Sub, LLC
Senior Secured

B

Senior Secured

CCC+

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 6

VetCor Acquisition LLC

Ratings Detail (As Of September 10, 2019)*(cont.)
Vetcor Professional Practices LLC
Senior Secured

B

Senior Secured

CCC+

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 7

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 8

