GI Chill Acquisition LLC
Primary Credit Analyst:
Viral Patel, New York +1 212-438-2403; viral.patel@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
David A Kaplan, CFA, New York (1) 212-438-5649; david.a.kaplan@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 1

GI Chill Acquisition LLC
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b-

b-

b-

B-/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key strengths

Key risks

Global leading position in both the cord blood and tissue storage businesses
and for the reproductive tissue (both sperm and eggs) businesses.

Small scale (about $200 million in annual GAAP revenue) with
narrow operating focus in two highly fragmented markets.

Annuity-like revenue stream from stem cell business provides some future
visibility.

Minimal approved therapeutic applications for stored cord blood
and none for cord tissue.

Upfront and out-of-pocket payments insulate the company from
reimbursement risk.

Limited supply of donor tissue in the reproductive business
constrains growth despite growing demand.

Above-average profitability with EBITDA margins near 30%.

Company competes with public blood banks, which offer a similar
service free of charge.
Highly leveraged capital structure with adjusted leverage of about
10.5x for 2019 (excludes deferred revenues from EBITDA).

The therapeutic application for newborn cord blood is limited.
Several leading medical organizations express skepticism about the value of private cord blood banking relative to free
public banking, given the current state of medical knowledge in which there are few applications for cord blood and
cord tissue. In addition, research suggests that the cord blood's potential benefit for the original donor may be limited
since it would likely have the same genetic defects as the ones found in the donor.

The company's small scale and narrow operating focus makes it sensitive to industry and regulatory
shifts.
GI Chill is narrowly focused and operates on a limited scale, with about $200 million in annual GAAP sales (excluding
deferred revenues). Barriers to entry for the industry remain moderate, including the initial investment to open
facilities, expanding the donor catalogue, and regulatory requirements. Additionally, the company is exposed to
regulatory shifts as the U.S. FDA routinely inspects the facilities for current good tissue practice (CGTP), current good
manufacturing practice (CGMP), and donor screening.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 2

GI Chill Acquisition LLC

The company benefits from high visibility to revenue streams, given the upfront payments of the
subscription-based model.
GI Chill benefits from the highly visible subscription-based revenue stream with strong renewal rates. The company's
multi-year contracts remain sticky among customers and collects subscription revenues upfront, which allows it to
manage working capital efficiently. We view favorably the stability and predictability around the company's
annuity-like revenue stream from annual storage fees, and the high level of profitability in this business.

The company has a leading position in sperm and egg storage, which has favorable demographic
trends.
The estimated total addressable market for storage of both reproductive and stem cell tissue is about $3.7 billion in the
U.S. Tailwinds include rising maternal age, increasing number of same-sex couples and single mothers by choice, and
increasing employer coverage of fertility treatments all benefiting the reproductive segment.

Outlook: Stable

The stable outlook reflects S&P Global Ratings' expectation that GI Chill's leverage will be about 10.5x in 2019,
declining to about 9.3x in 2020. It also reflects our expectation that the company will generate about $20 million in
free operating cash flow in 2019, improving to $30 million per year in 2020. At the same time, we expect adjusted
debt leverage to remain elevated, above 8x for the next few years since we don't think the company will use
internally generated cash flow for permanent debt reduction. We project the financial sponsor will shape the
company's financial policy and that the company will use excess cash and growing debt capacity to fund
shareholder returns and acquisitions.

Downside scenario
We could lower the rating if competitive/pricing pressures or regulatory challenges in the cord blood registry
(CBR) business results in a revenue decline and margin erosion, leading leverage to rise above 10x for a sustained
period. This could occur if EBITDA margins decline below 27% and revenue growth slows.

Upside scenario
An upgrade is unlikely over the next year given GI Chill's initial high debt leverage. However, we could consider a
higher rating if the company reduced leverage below 7x. Such an improvement could be achieved with EBITDA
margin expansion of over 300 basis points above our base case and revenue growth accelerating to the low-teens
in 2020. We would also need to determine whether the company could sustain leverage below that threshold and
adhere to a financial policy that is consistent with the improved credit measures on an ongoing basis.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 3

GI Chill Acquisition LLC

Assumptions

• We expect low- to mid-single-digit percentage
revenue growth (excluding deferred revenues)
reflecting favorable demographic trends supporting
growth and sales force investment and marketing
optimization.
• We expect adjusted EBITDA margin expansion in
2019 partially offset by integration costs, and project
that it will increase by about 250 basis points in
2020 as the company realizes synergies and
integration costs roll off.

Key Metrics

2018A 2019E 2020E
Adj. debt/EBITDA (x)

17.7

10-11

9-10

Adj. EBITDA margin (%)

18.4

28-33

28-33

5.5

2-4

2-4

FFO to debt (%)

All figures are S&P Global Ratings-adjusted.
A--Actual. E--Estimate. FFO--Funds from operations.

• We expect 2019 capital expenditures to be elevated
at $8 million, reflecting one-time capex, and improve
to about $5 million per year in 2020.
• Leverage will remain elevated; however, company
growth, one-time costs, and synergies will improve
EBITDA in 2019 and 2020.

Company Description
GI Chill Acquisition LLC (together with its subsidiaries, "California Cryobank Life Sciences," or "CCLS") has a leading
market position in both of its core markets. The company has a base of more than 875,000 stored cord blood and cord
tissue units and in its reproductive segment has provided frozen donor gametes (both sperm and eggs) to thousands of
customers. The cord blood and tissue business (about 67% of revenues) serves a diverse customer base of new parents
and the reproductive business serves customers seeking to start or build their family. The company is domiciled in the
U.S. and given the nature of its services, only a small percentage of total sales are outside of the U.S.

Business Risk: Weak
The ratings on GI Chill reflect the company's limited size and narrow business focus in the fragmented markets for
cord blood and tissue storage and for reproductive cell and tissue (both sperm and egg), which are relatively small and
have only moderate barriers to entry. The ratings also reflect our view that currently there is only a certain number of
approved therapeutic applications for newborn cord blood and no approved uses for the cord tissue. Partially offsetting
these factors are the company's leading positions in all of its target markets, above-average profitability, potential
cross-selling opportunities between the two combined businesses, predictability of the annuity-like revenue stream
from the CBR business, and lack of exposure to government or managed care reimbursement in either segment.
The combined company holds the leading positions in all three markets, with 40%, 35%, and 39% market share in
sperm, egg, and stem cell storage business lines in the U.S., respectively. The CBR business competes with ViaCord, a

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 4

GI Chill Acquisition LLC

subsidiary of PerkinElmer; Cryo-Cell International; StemCyte; and multiple other private blood banks in the U.S. In
addition, CBR competes with public blood banks, which offer a similar service free of charge. We believe about 40% of
cord blood banking in the U.S. is done in public banks, with GI Chill capturing about 40% of the private banking
market.
The company is also the largest U.S. player in the sperm and egg storage market, relying on its catalog of about 570
sperm donors and 385 egg donors. We view this catalogue size as a moderate competitive advantage as customers
seek choice. The company's main competitors in the sperm storage business include Fairfax Cryobank, Xytex, Seattle
Sperm, and Cryos USA. In the egg storage business, GI Chill competes with Fairfax Eggbank, First Egg Bank, Cryos
USA, and My EggBank.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
Our assessment of GI Chill's financial risk profile reflects our base-case expectation that 2019 leverage will increase to
10.5x, improving to about 9.3x in 2020 as the company realizes synergies and integration costs roll off. The assessment
also reflects a funds from operations (FFO) to total debt ratio at 2.4% in 2019, improving to 3.3% in 2020. While our
base-case assumes that GI Chill will generate about $20 million in free operating cash flow in 2019 and over $30
million per year starting in 2020, we expect leverage to remain elevated above 8x for the next few years since we don't
expect the company to use internally generated cash flow for permanent debt reduction. We project the financial
sponsor will shape the company's financial policy and use excess cash for acquisitions or to fund shareholder returns
rather than to retire debt.

Liquidity: Adequate
GI Chill's liquidity is adequate, in our view. Over the next 12 months, we expect sources of liquidity to cover uses by
more than 1.2x. Even if EBITDA were 15% below our projections, we believe liquidity sources would still exceed uses.
In addition, we believe that GI Chill has sound relationships with banks and generally prudent risk management. At the
same time, given the lack of scale, and high leverage we do not believe that the company could absorb a high-impact,
low-probability event without the need for refinancing.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Full availability under the new $40 million revolver;

• Mandatory debt amortization of about $4 million
annually; and

• Cash on hand of $14 million as of June 30, 2019;
• Approximately $11 million of cash FFO; and

• Capital expenditures of about $8 million in 2019.

• Working capital inflow of about $15 million per year
resulting from the CBR's deferred revenue.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 5

GI Chill Acquisition LLC

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• The capital structure consists of a $40 million first-lien revolving credit facility, which is undrawn as of June 30,
2019, a $410 million first-lien senior secured credit facility, and $162 million second-lien term loan.
• Our hypothetical default scenario contemplates a default stemming from competitive or regulatory pressures in the
CBR business, which contributes the majority of the profitability, resulting in revenue and EBITDA erosion.
• We estimate for the company to default, EBITDA would need to decline to about $52 million, which is our estimate
of the company's fixed charges (interest, debt amortization, and maintenance capital expenditures).
• Given the company's market position we would expect the company to be reorganized, rather than liquidated, in the
event of a default.
• We valued the company applying a 5.5x multiple to our default level EBITDA, consistent with similarly rated peers.

Simulated default assumptions
• Simulated year of default: 2021
• EBITDA at emergence: $51 million
• EBITDA multiple: 5.5x

Simplified waterfall
• Net enterprise value (after 5% administrative costs): $267 million
• Valuation split in % (obligors/nonobligors): 100/0
• Collateral value available to first-lien creditors: $267 million
• Secured first-lien debt: approximately $445 million
• --Recovery expectations: 50%-70%; rounded estimate: 60%
• Collateral value available to remaining pari passu claims: $0 million
• Remaining pari passu claims: approximately $347 million
• --Recovery expectations: 0%-10%; rounded estimate: 0%
Notes: All debt amounts include six months' prepetition interest.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B-/Stable/--

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 6

GI Chill Acquisition LLC

• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: bModifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: FS-6 (no additional impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, July 1, 2019
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, April 1, 2019
• General Criteria: Methodology For Linking Long-Term And Short-Term Ratings, April 7, 2017
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate
Issuers, Dec. 16, 2014
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Business And Consumer Services Industry, Nov. 19,
2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 7

GI Chill Acquisition LLC

Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Business Risk Profile
Excellent
Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

Ratings Detail (As Of September 11, 2019)*
GI Chill Acquisition LLC
Issuer Credit Rating

B-/Stable/--

Senior Secured

B-

Issuer Credit Ratings History
18-Jul-2018

B-/Stable/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 8

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 9

