Novetta Solutions LLC
Primary Credit Analyst:
Alexandra Dima, CFA, Toronto + 1 (416) 507 3227; alexandra.dima@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Christopher A Denicolo, CFA, Washington D.C. (1) 202-383-2398; christopher.denicolo@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 1

Novetta Solutions LLC
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b-

b-

b-

B-/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key strengths

Key risks

Good margins for a service provider, due largely to the ability to retain intellectual
property rights.

Small size compared to much larger competitors.

Solid position in a niche market.

Concentrated customer base and lack of program
diversity.

Low capital spending requirements.

Leverage remains high.

We expect top-line growth to drive improved credit metrics, with debt to EBITDA improving from
9.4x in 2018 to mid- to high-7x in 2019.
Growth on existing core contracts, robust defense spending, new contract wins, and the Berico acquisition (completed
November 2018) are drivers for strong revenue growth in 2019. However, delays in contract awards and the ramp up
of new programs could result in revenues not growing as fast as we expect. We also expect the company to make
additional tuck-in acquisitions over the next few years.

Novetta remains a small government service provider, with about $255 million to $275 million of
revenues expected in 2019.
The company competes against much larger players and is one of the smallest aerospace and defense (A&D) firms we
rate. However, the company's technological capabilities have allowed it to remain competitive and establish a solid
position with certain customers, especially intelligence agencies and special operation forces.

Novetta has limited customer diversity and high program concentration, increasing the risk of
program delays or cancellations.
The company's top five contracts make up about 50%-60% of revenues, with the top 15 at about 75%, but these
contracts tend to have fairly stable sales. Almost 80% of sales are to intelligence agencies and special operations
forces. However, funding for these customers is typically higher priority than other parts of the military.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 2

Novetta Solutions LLC

Outlook: Stable

The stable outlook reflects S&P Global Ratings' expectation that the company's credit ratios will improve over the
next 12 to 24 months due to modest revenue and earnings growth, although they will remain very weak (with debt
to EBITDA of more than 7x in 2019). We also expect the company's liquidity to remain adequate.

Upside scenario
We could raise our ratings on Novetta if revenue and earnings increase faster than we expect, causing debt to
EBITDA to decline below 7x, and liquidity remains adequate. This improved growth could be caused by the
company's customers resolving their delays faster than we expect or from additional new contract awards.

Downside scenario
We could lower our ratings on Novetta in the next 12 months if we believe the company's capital structure has
become unsustainable because of elevated leverage and cash flows that have turned negative for an extended
period. This could be caused by a decline in the company's revenue and earnings due to the loss of a major
contract or because management fails to win new business or to expand contracts. We could also lower our ratings
if its liquidity becomes severely constrained by prolonged cash outflows or reduced revolver availability due to
tight covenant headroom.

Our Base-Case Scenario
Assumptions

• Organic revenue growth around 20% in 2019 and
10% in 2020 driven by both new contracts and
growth on existing programs;
• EBITDA margins remaining relatively flat at around
14%-15%;
• Modest capital spending of around $4 million
annually;

Key Metrics

2018A

2019E

2020E

Debt to EBITDA (x)

9.4 7.2-7.6 7.0-7.4

FFO to debt (%)

2.3

EBITDA interest coverage (x)

1.2 1.4-1.8 1.5-1.9

3-7 3.5-7.5

A--Actual. E—Estimate. FFO—Funds from operations.

• Acquisitions of $25 million in 2020; and
• No dividends or share repurchases during the
forecast period.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 3

Novetta Solutions LLC

Company Description
Novetta provides advanced analytics software and solutions for government and commercial enterprises worldwide.
Novetta's services include providing proprietary software to intelligence agencies and special operations forces,
focusing on technologies pertaining to data analytics and cybersecurity. Novetta's customers also include the U.S.
Department of Homeland Security and law enforcement agencies. In 2015, Novetta was acquired by The Carlyle
Group, a large private equity firm with a history of investing in aerospace and defense (A&D) companies.

Business Risk: Weak
Novetta's EBITDA margins, which are between 14%-15%, are higher than most of the other government services
contractors we rate, most of which have EBITDA margins around 10% or below. Novetta is able to maintain elevated
margins due to the specialized nature of its work and has customers that are less price sensitive than other parts of the
military or civilian government agencies. Another contributing factor is that in most cases, when IT work is down for
government agencies, the government retains the IP. However, Novetta is able to retain the IP rights, allowing it to
reuse developed software on other contracts.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
The company's credit ratios are improving, although debt leverage will remain high, with debt to EBITDA of 7x-8x.
Although we expect leverage to improve to below 7.5x by 2020, additional tuck-in acquisitions could result in leverage
that is higher than we forecast. We expect cash flow generation to be lower in 2019 compared to 2018, driven by
working capital investments. We expect improvement in 2020 onwards as earnings increase and working capital needs
subside. Generally the company has very low capital spending requirements.

Liquidity: Adequate
We assess the company's liquidity as adequate. We believe that Novetta's sources of liquidity will be about 2x its uses
over the next 12 months, and expect that sources would exceed uses even if EBITDA declined by 15%. However, we
do not believe Novetta can absorb high-impact, low-probability events without the need for refinancing, or that it has
high standing in the credit markets.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 4

Novetta Solutions LLC

Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Minimal cash balances as of June 30, 2019;

• Minimal near-term debt maturities consisting of $2
million amortization on the first-lien term loan; and

• Availability of about $25 million on its $40 million
revolving credit facility that matures in 2022, due to
covenant constraints; and

• Modest capex of around $4 million annually.

• Cash from operations between $5 million and $8
million over the next 12 months.

Covenant Analysis
The only financial covenant in the company's credit facilities is a springing maximum first-lien leverage ratio of 6x that
is only tested if the revolver is more than 30% drawn. We don't expect the covenant will be tested over the next 12
months. However, the amount available for borrowing would be limited by the covenant to about $25 million.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• The '3' recovery rating on the first-lien facility and '6' recovery rating on the second-lien term loan are unchanged.
• The company's capital structure consists of a $40 million first-lien revolver, $200 million first-lien term loan ($194
million currently outstanding), and $85 million second-lien term loan.
• We value the company on a going-concern basis using a 5x multiple of our projected emergence EBITDA. Other
key assumptions at default include LIBOR of 2.5% and the revolver is 85% drawn.

Simulated default assumptions
• Default year: 2021
• EBITDA at emergence: $29 million
• Multiple: 5x

Simplified waterfall
• Net enterprise value after admin. expenses (5%): $137 million
• Valuation split (obligor/nonobligors): 100%/0%
• Collateral value available to first-lien creditors: $137 million
• Total first-lien debt: $232 million
• --Recovery expectations: 50%-70%; rounded estimate: 55%
• Second-lien debt claims: $90 million
• --Recovery expectations: 0%-10%; rounded estimate: 0%

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 5

Novetta Solutions LLC

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B-/Stable/--

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: bModifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral
• Capital structure: Neutral
• Financial policy: Neutral
• Liquidity: Adequate
• Management and governance: Fair
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral
Stand-alone credit profile : b-

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, July 1, 2019
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, April 1, 2019
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Aerospace And Defense Industry, March 25, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 6

Novetta Solutions LLC

Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Business Risk Profile
Excellent
Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

Ratings Detail (As Of September 13, 2019)*
Novetta Solutions LLC
Issuer Credit Rating

B-/Stable/--

Senior Secured

B-

Senior Secured

CCC

Issuer Credit Ratings History
20-May-2016

B-/Stable/--

17-Sep-2015

B/Stable/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 7

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 8

