24 Hour Fitness Worldwide Inc.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Adam J Odland, Centennial (1) 303-721-4664; adam.odland@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Emile J Courtney, CFA, New York (1) 212-438-7824; emile.courtney@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 4, 2019 1

24 Hour Fitness Worldwide Inc.
Business Risk: FAIR

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b

b

b

B/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key strengths

Key risks

Clustering strategy in densely populated areas.

Competitive fitness club space creates high levels of customer attrition inherent in the
industry.

Good interest coverage for the highly leveraged financial
risk score.

AEA Investors', Fitness Capital Partners' and Teachers' Private Capital's majority
ownership of the company.

Good geographic diversity and solid market position.

Exposure to high operating leverage from fixed cost operating leases.

Clustering strategy in seven densely populated areas provides benefits to the company. Approximately three quarters of
clubs are located within clusters in four metropolitan areas in California, Dallas, Houston, and Denver. This strategy
provides the company with numerous benefits, including scaling of advertising and advantageous labor access in
populated areas, as well as strengthening brand recognition and market share. In addition, this strategy can increase
convenience for its member base by increasing the chances a club is located near a member's work and home.
The fitness club industry is highly competitive, negatively affecting attrition rates.24 Hour operates in the highly
competitive fitness club industry, which has low barriers to entry and high customer attrition rates. The company has a
high average monthly attrition rate, currently averaging about 3.7% in the first half of 2019, because the company faces
increasing competitive pressures from boutique studios, no-frills clubs, and luxury clubs. As a result, customers may
choose more budget-friendly alternatives with fewer services or high-end alternatives with more services.
Good geographical diversification helps mitigate exposure to regional economic risk.As of June 30, 2019, the company
operated 445 clubs in 13 states and 23 markets primarily in suburban areas. Club locations spanning across the West
Coast to the Southeast provide a strong geographical footprint and a solid market position, which modestly offsets
risks associated with region-specific economic deterioration. On the other hand, with approximately half of total clubs
located in California, statewide minimum wage increases through 2022 might negatively affect operating income.
Financial risk is elevated due to financial sponsor ownership, and significant operating leases expose the company to
high operating leverage. Our financial risk assessment incorporates financial sponsor ownership and the impact on the
company's cash-flow activities. AEA Investors', Fitness Capital Partners' and Teachers' Private Capital's majority
ownership of 24 Hour creates risks because we believe that, over time, financial sponsors tend to engage in leveraging
transactions to fund distributions to shareholders. In addition, financial risk reflects our expectation that lease-adjusted

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 4, 2019 2

24 Hour Fitness Worldwide Inc.

debt to EBTIDA will be highly leveraged. Significant operating leases can cause EBITDA margin to deteriorate in times
of revenue decline as a result of high fixed-rent costs associated with the leases.

Outlook: Stable

Our rating outlook is stable despite a modest anticipated decline in comparable club revenue and EBITDA margin
through 2020. This is mostly because we expect incremental EBITDA from newly opened clubs will partly offset
leverage from newly executed operating leases and cause our measure of adjusted leverage to be about flat
through 2020. We expect operating lease-adjusted debt to EBTIDA in the mid-6x area and EBITDA interest
coverage in the low-2x through 2020. Our stable outlook also reflects our expectation that the company's sponsors
will not engage in transactions that will meaningfully increase leverage over the next two years.

Downside scenario
We could lower the ratings if lease adjusted debt to EBITDA were sustained above 7x or if EBITDA coverage of
interest expense declined to the 1.5x area as a result of an operating performance that underperformed our
expectation or a leveraging transaction. We would also consider lowering the ratings if 24 Hour became unable to
internally fund its growth initiatives or increase leverage meaningfully to fund distributions to shareholders.

Upside scenario
Higher ratings are unlikely over the next two years, given our expectation that the company will maintain an
aggressive position toward club expansion and that operating lease-adjusted debt to EBITDA will be in the mid-6x
area through 2020. However, we could raise the rating by one notch if we believed that adjusted debt to EBITDA
would remain below 5.5x. A higher rating would also depend on our expectation that AEA, Fitness Capital
Partners, and Teachers' Private Capital would not engage in any significant leveraging transactions and that the
company would fund expansion through internally generated funds, such that adjusted leverage would be
sustained below the 5.5x threshold.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 4, 2019 3

24 Hour Fitness Worldwide Inc.

Assumptions

Key Metrics

• U.S. real GDP growth of 2.2% and 1.7% in 2019 and
2020, respectively.
• Growth in U.S consumer spending of 2.5% and 2%
in 2019 and 2020, respectively.
• Comparable club revenue will continue to decline
slightly through 2020.

2018A

2019E

2020E

Adj. debt/EBITDA (x)

6.6

Mid-6

Mid-6

Adj. FFO/debt (%)

8.5 About 8.5 About 8.5

Adj. EBITDA interest coverage (x)

2.3

Low 2

Low 2

A--Actual. E--Estimate. FFO--Funds from operations.

• EBITDA margin will be negatively affected in 2019
due to increased rent and labor-related costs but
improve slightly in 2020.
• Average member count increases in 2019 and 2020
as a result of nine newly opened clubs net of
closures in 2018 and double-digit club openings in
2019.
• Total revenue grows in the low-single digits in 2019
and 2020, driven by openings of new clubs.

Base-case projections
Comparable club revenue will continue to decline slightly. Revenue generated by clubs operating for 13 or more
consecutive months grew in 2018, but experienced a decline in the first half of 2019. A 2018 announcement of
personal training price increases effective in 2019 shifted a portion of ancillary revenue to late 2018. We expect
declining comparable club revenue in 2019 due to increased attrition through the second quarter, but partially
mitigated by membership price increases.
New club openings drive total revenue growth. We expect revenue growth from new club openings to offset
comparable club revenue reductions. For the six months ended June 30, 2019, clubs operating for less than 13 months
contributed $14 million of revenue offsetting a $9 million decline in comparable club revenue. We expect double-digit
club growth, net of closures, to improve revenue through 2020 despite negative comparable club revenue.
EBITDA margins will be slightly compressed in 2019, pressured by rising operating costs. We expect a slight EBITDA
margin decline in 2019, primarily due to rising labor costs and rent from newly opened clubs. Although we expect the
closures of underperforming clubs and improved general and administrative (G&A) expenses to partially offset higher
labor and rent costs, overall EBITDA margin will likely decline. We expect EBITDA margin to rebound modestly in
2020 as new clubs ramp-up and the company reduces G&A expenses related to executive management compensation.

Company Description
24 Hour Fitness Worldwide Inc. owns and operates fitness clubs and health centers. Currently, the company operates
445 clubs across 13 states and has approximately 3.5 million members. The company offers a variety of services,
including personal training, group classes, and retail sales. The company was incorporated in 1994 and is
headquartered in San Ramon, Calif.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 4, 2019 4

24 Hour Fitness Worldwide Inc.

Business Risk: Fair
Additional business risk considerations include:
The fitness club industry typically faces low barriers to entry and high customer attrition rates. About half of the
company's clubs are in California, where fitness consciousness is higher than in many other states and where the
company enjoys a leading market share with well-developed club clusters in major cities such as San Francisco, Los
Angeles, and San Diego. However, the concentration potentially subjects the company to revenue and to EBITDA
volatility resulting from economic cycles and increasing labor costs in California. Despite the company's substantial
size, its clubs remain vulnerable to competition from strong regional and national players, such as Planet Fitness, LA
Fitness International LLC, Life Time Fitness Inc., and Equinox Holdings Inc.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
Additional financial risk considerations include:
We expect funds from operations to debt to be about 8.5% and EBITDA interest coverage to remain in the low 2x
area, through 2020.

Liquidity: Adequate
Based on expected sources and uses of liquidity over the next 12 to 18 months and incorporating our performance
expectations, 24 Hour has an adequate liquidity profile, according to our criteria. We expect that over the next 12 to 18
months, liquidity sources will exceed uses by 1.2x or more, and sources would exceed uses even if EBITDA were to
underperform our forecast by 15%.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• As of June 30, 2019, 24 Hour had $1.3 million in
unrestricted cash on the balance sheet.

• Our expectation for annual capital expenditures of
about $150 million in 2019 and 2020, which include
planned spending for club expansions but exclude
tenant improvement incentives funded by landlords.

• As of June 30, 2019, 24 Hour had $93 million
available under its $120 million revolving credit
facility.

• Scheduled debt amortization payments.

• Our expectation for operating cash flow from
operations of about $110 million through 2020.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 4, 2019 5

24 Hour Fitness Worldwide Inc.

Covenant Analysis
The leverage ratio covenant applies when the borrowings on the revolver reach 35% or more. We expect the company
to maintain adequate cushion of at least 15% over the forecast period.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• Our recovery rating on 24 Hour's senior secured credit facility is '2', indicating our expectation for substantial
(70%-90%; rounded estimate: 85%) recovery for lenders in the event of a payment default.
• Our recovery rating on 24 Hour's senior unsecured notes remains '6', indicating our expectation for negligible
(0%-10%) recovery for lenders in the event of a payment default.
• Our simulated default scenario contemplates a default occurring in 2022, following a significant decline in EBITDA
from a prolonged economic downturn and increased competition.
• If 24 Hours were to default, it would continue to have a viable business model because of the company's leading
positions in its core markets and its large network of clubs. As a result, we believe that lenders would achieve
greater recovery value through reorganization rather than a liquidation of the business. To value the enterprise, we
applied a 5.5x multiple.
• We assume the $120 million revolver is 85% drawn at default.

Simulated default assumptions
• Year of default: 2022
• EBITDA at emergence: $158 million
• EBITDA multiple: 5.5x
• Revolving credit facility: 85% drawn at default

Simplified waterfall
• Net enterprise value (after 5% administrative costs): $825 million
• Obligor/non-obligor split: 100%/0%
• Estimated secured debt: $952 million
• Value available for first-lien claim: $825 million
• --Recovery expectation: 70%-90% (rounded estimate 85%)
• Estimated senior secured deficiency claim: $127 million
• Estimated senior unsecured notes claim: $520 million
• Value available for senior unsecured notes claim: $0 million
• --Recovery expectation: 0%-10% (rounded estimate: 0%)

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 4, 2019 6

24 Hour Fitness Worldwide Inc.

All debt amounts include six months of prepetition interest.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B/Stable/--

Business risk: Fair

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Fair
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: b
Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: FS-6 (no additional impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)
Stand-alone credit profile : b

Related Criteria
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Leisure And Sports Industry, March 5, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 4, 2019 7

24 Hour Fitness Worldwide Inc.

Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

Fair

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Business Risk Profile
Excellent
Strong
Satisfactory

Ratings Detail (As Of September 4, 2019)*
24 Hour Fitness Worldwide Inc.
Issuer Credit Rating

B/Stable/--

Senior Secured

B+

Senior Unsecured

CCC+

Issuer Credit Ratings History
30-Mar-2010

B/Stable/--

21-Apr-2009

B/Negative/--

24-Dec-2008

B/Stable/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 4, 2019 8

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 4, 2019 9

