JSC Georgia Capital
Primary Credit Analyst:
Anton Geyze, Moscow (7) 495-783-4134; anton.geyze@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Per Karlsson, Stockholm (46) 8-440-5927; per.karlsson@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Subordination Risk Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 1

JSC Georgia Capital
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

bb-

b+

b+

Financial Risk: SIGNIFICANT
Highly leveraged

B+/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key Strengths

Key Risks

Financial policy of maximum of 30% loan-to-portfolio value (LTV)
ratio at all times.

Limited portfolio size of about $800 million.

Role as an important investment vehicle in Georgia.

Sole exposure to volatile Georgian market.

Share of listed assets of about 45% of the portfolio.

High concentration with three key assets constituting about 65% of the
portfolio.

Good competitive position of key investee companies.

Exposure to foreign currency risk on the debt side with earnings largely
in local currency.

Adequate liquidity and sustainable debt maturity profile.

On-lending of bond proceeds to investee companies.

Georgia Capital's investment portfolio is fully concentrated on the developing market of Georgia and particularly on
three key assets. Georgia Capital's investee companies are solely exposed to economic and business conditions in
Georgia; according to management its investee companies' share of Georgia's GDP is about 10%. Georgia is a
developing market that can be quite volatile and relies heavily on net foreign direct investments. We continue to see
risks to the Georgian economy from regional geopolitical developments in relation to Russia, but we do not expect a
material escalation. In fact, we anticipate the conflict will remain largely frozen over the medium term. Georgia Capital
also has relatively high asset concentration in its portfolio. Georgia Healthcare Group, Bank of Georgia, and Georgia
Global Utilities, the three largest assets, constitute about 65% of the portfolio.
Relatively small size of the portfolio, weak weighted average credit quality, and on-lending of bond proceeds constrain
the rating. In our view, Georgia Capital's weighted average creditworthiness of investee companies is in the 'B' rating
category. With a portfolio size of about $800 million, Georgia Capital's investment portfolio is smaller than that of
many other rated investment holding companies globally, which increases concentration risks. On-lending of bond
proceeds to Georgia Capital investee companies constrains the liquidity of its portfolio, in our view.
The sound financial policy should help to offset the negative effects of foreign exchange fluctuations.We expect
Georgia Capital to actively manage its debt levels so that it maintains a maximum of 30% loan-to-portfolio value (LTV)
ratio at all times, which includes our expectations that management will be selling listed assets, at a discount if needed,
to keep the LTV below 30%. This should help to somewhat offset one of the key risks faced by Georgia Capital--the
depreciation of its local currency against the U.S. dollar. Its debt is almost entirely in U.S. dollar bonds, while cash

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 2

JSC Georgia Capital

flows of its investee companies are largely in Georgian lari (GEL), with only some embedded natural hedge supported
by the generally high level of dollarization of the Georgian economy.

Outlook: Stable

The stable outlook reflects our view that Georgia Capital will actively manage its LTV ratio so that it remains
below 30% in the next 12 months. We also expect stable dividend flows from its portfolio companies, which should
allow Georgia Capital to comfortably cover its operating and interest expenses, and no on-lending other than
US$165 million from the bond proceeds.

Downside scenario
We could lower the rating if Georgia Capital's LTV rises above 30% on a sustained basis and the company does not
take immediate action, such as asset sales, to restore balance-sheet strength. LTV deterioration would most likely
be the result of a material weakening in equity values or large negative currency fluctuations. Ratings pressure
could also result from material credit quality deterioration of any of the core investments, which would erode
valuations and increase the likelihood of Georgia Capital having to inject fresh capital for support. We could also
lower the rating if there are any signs of liquidity or refinancing risks at either Georgia Capital or its investees.

Upside scenario
We could revise the outlook to positive or raise the ratings if Georgia Capital's portfolio characteristics--such as
liquidity, asset quality, and diversification--materially improve. Material portfolio valuation increases resulting in
sustained lower LTV ratios--and if management commits to maintaining this--could support a higher rating. An
upgrade would hinge on maintenance of at least an adequate liquidity profile.

Our Base-Case Scenario
Assumptions

Key Metrics

• Real GDP growth in Georgia of 4.0% in 2019, 3.5%
in 2020.
• Interest income of about GEL25 million-GEL40
million annually.
• Dividend income of GEL80 million-GEL95 million
annually.

2018A

2019E

2020E

Cash flow adequacy (x)

1.8

1.6-1.8

1.6-1.8

Loan to value (%)

25 Less than 30 Less than 30

A--Actual. E--Estimate.

• Operating expenses at the holding company of
about GEL20 million and interest expenses of
GEL50 million-GEL55 million per year.
• No further material debt incurred at Georgia Capital.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 3

JSC Georgia Capital

Base-case projections
We expect Georgia Capital's LTV ratio of 25% as of Dec 31, 2018 to remain broadly unchanged in 2019. Georgia
Capital will likely continue to operate broadly within its financial policy of 30% maximum leverage. We believe that if it
were to deviate from this, it would likely come from a drop in the share prices of core investments rather from a major
acquisition. We expect the global economy to enter a period of less supportive macroeconomic conditions and greater
instability. This includes Brexit uncertainty, the China/USA trade war, and geopolitical tensions, which could all lead
to increased volatility and lower share prices.
Sound cash flow adequacy should provide some buffer against local currency fluctuations.In our base case, we assume
sound cash flow ratios of 1.8x for 2019, supported by a total dividend and interest income of about GEL120 million.
We expect dividend and interest income to be reinvested into growing investee companies in renewable energy,
education businesses, and others.

Company Description
Georgia Capital JSC is an investment holding company based in Georgia. Its parent Georgia Capital Plc is listed on the
London Stock Exchange and as of Aug. 1, 2019 had a market value of £364 million. Its portfolio is almost equally split
between listed and non-listed equity participations in investee companies in Georgia in banking, pharma and
healthcare, utilities, real estate and hospitality, private education, and renewable energy generation. Its key
investments include 19.9% of U.K.-listed Bank of Georgia Plc (BOG), 57% of U.K.-listed Georgia Healthcare Group
(GHG), 100% of Georgian Global Utilities (GGU), a water utility business; 100% of M2, a real estate and hospitality
business; 65% in Georgian Renewable Power Company (GPRC); as well as a 100% stake in Aldagi, a property and
casualty insurance company, and a 86% stake in Georgia Beverages, a beverage business.

Business Risk: Weak
It has a sole concentration in the Georgian economy. All Georgia Capital's investee companies are located in Georgia.
The Georgian economy remains constrained by relatively low per capita income (estimated at $4,200) and
balance-of-payments vulnerabilities, including Georgia's import dependence, high current account deficits (which,
however, declined recently), and sizable external debt, which could weigh on Georgia Capital's growth potential.
However, we generally assess the macroeconomic factors as supportive for Georgia Capital over the near term, given
our expectation of 4.0% real GDP growth in 2019 and 3.5% in 2019 (compared with 4.7% in 2018) and the country's
strong institutional arrangements for the region. The agreement for political association and economic integration
between the EU and Georgia, which entered into force in 2016, is likely to support Georgia's consumption of products,
such as compulsory third-party insurance.
On-lending of bonds proceeds negatively affects liquidity of the portfolio. $165 million of bond proceeds are designated
to be on-lent to two investee companies--GRPC and m2--to fund the development of wind power projects and hotel
construction. We believe these investments entail some execution risk and are difficult to finance at a reasonable cost
on a stand-alone basis in the local capital markets. This is unusual for an investment holding company, given that they
typically do not participate in debt financing of investee companies. Such a commitment could reduce the willingness
to sell the shares of the investee, even if needed to manage holding-company debt levels.
We also factor in that there is a cross-default clause (with a threshold of $25 million) with "material subsidiaries" of
Georgia Capital, which increases the exposure of Georgia Capital to the credit risk of its unlisted investees. We

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 4

JSC Georgia Capital

understand that currently no subsidiaries are considered material. We believe this might create a strong incentive for
Georgia Capital to support unlisted material subsidiaries if it is experiencing financial stress.
Portfolio analysis.
Chart 1

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 5

JSC Georgia Capital

Chart 2

Georgia Capita's key investee companies enjoy good competitive positions in their respective markets. BoG is the
largest provider of banking services in Georgia, with a market share of about 40%. GGU is a water utility monopoly in
capital city of Tbilisi and surrounding area. GHG is the largest pharma distributor and private owner of hospitals in
Georgia with market shares of 30% and 25% in the respective segments. BoG generated about 30% of Georgia
Capital's total dividend stream in 2018 and GGU generated about 40%. We expect the share of these two investee
companies to gradually decline as companies such as Aldagi and M2 increase their dividends payments, while GHG
starts to pay dividends from 2019.
GHG and GGU benefit from mostly having completed their investment programs, which should allow them to generate
positive cash flows. At the same time, Georgia Capital's renewable energy company, GRPC, will require large
investments over the next three to five years. We consider these investments to be partly funded from dividend and
interest income and partly from the proceeds from the issued bond that will be on-lent to GRPC. We also expect
Georgia Capital to invest heavily in its education business, as already demonstrated by its purchases of several schools
in 2019.
We believe management has demonstrated an ability to develop exit opportunities, such as the initial public offering of
GHG in 2015 (bringing in US$110 million), which was Georgia's third IPO overall and its first outside the financial
sector. We also factor in that Georgia Capital in May 2017 sold 7.2% of GHG shares for US$40 million. Consequently,
we expect Georgia Capital to gradually monetize its shares in GHG and reduce its ownership to below 50%,
redeploying the funds into existing or new investments that could support better portfolio diversification.
We note that Bank of Georgia Plc's share price has declined by more than 20% since June 2018 and that of Georgia
Healthcare group has declined by about 10% since the same date because of overall price volatility in the emerging

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 6

JSC Georgia Capital

markets, but also due to investors reallocating capital from investee companies into newly listed Georgia Capital Plc.
However, growth in the portfolio value of unlisted assets, particularly M2 and GGU, has compensated for this decline
with the overall portfolio valuation remaining broadly flat. Georgia Capital's share price has remained broadly flat since
July 2018, also supported by its share buy backs. Georgia Capital has purchased $45 million of its own shares under its
previous buy-back program launched in mid-2018 and announced a new $20 million share buy-back program in
August 2019.
In relation to peers, Georgia Capital is a much smaller investment holding company. Additionally, Georgia Capital is
more exposed to high country risk environment and local currency volatility. We consider that the performance of
investee companies may be affected by the volatility of the economy in the future, which has the potential to decrease
the company's cash flow, among other metrics.

Peer comparison
Table 1

Georgia Capital--Peer Comparison

Issuer credit ratings

Georgia Capital JSC

Koc Holding A.S.

Wendel

EXOR N.V.

B+/Stable/--

BB-/Stable/B

BBB/Stable/A-2

BBB+/Stable/A-2

Business profile

Weak

Fair

Fair

Satisfactory

Portfolio size
(adjusted; Mil. $)

810.0

8,502.0

8,059.0

24,828.0

Weight of listed
assets (%)

44.7

89.0

48.7

66.5

Largest asset (% of
portfolio)

23.8

29.9

42.7

30.0

Three largest assets
(% of potfolio)

64.4

61.2

74.2

78.8

Three largest assets

Bank of Georgia, Georgian Global
Utilities, Georgia Healthcare
Group

Tupras, Ford Otosan, and
Yapi Kredi Bank

Bureau Veritas, Stahl, and
IHS

FCA Group, PartnerRe, and
Ferrari

Significant

Modest

Modest

Modest

Loan to value
ceiling (%)

30.0

20.0

20.0

20.0

Loan to value (%)

24.8

(2.5)

6.6

14.4

Cash flow leverage

Financial Risk: Significant
We expect Georgia Capital to actively manage its debt levels so that it maintains a maximum of 30% loan-to-portfolio
value (LTV) ratio at all times, including selling listed assets at a discount if needed. Based on current market prices, we
assess its LTV ratio will be about 20%-25%. We expect Georgia Capital to use its dividend and interest income stream
for capital contributions into renewable energy business, education, and real estate businesses.

Financial summary
Table 2

Georgia Capital JSC.--Financial Summary
(Mil. GEL)

2018

Portfolio as adjusted

2,188

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 7

JSC Georgia Capital

Table 2

Georgia Capital JSC.--Financial
Summary (cont.)
(Mil. GEL)

2018

Net debt as adjusted

542

Loan to value (%)

24.8

Dividend and fees income

112

Operating charges and tax expenses

19.0

Interest expenses

44.7

Cash flow cover (x)

1.8

GEL--Georgian lari.

Liquidity: Adequate
We assess Georgia Capital's liquidity as adequate. We estimate that its sources of liquidity cover sources by above 1.3x
starting from June 2019.
We believe Georgia Capital has a generally satisfactory standing in credit markets, which is demonstrated by the bond
issuance, and that it has sound relationships with local banks, given its important position as a key investor in the
country.
Nevertheless, its ability to refinance debt could be restricted, as the domestic capital markets are relatively shallow and
Georgia Capital has no committed back-up facilities in place. We understand that management has committed to keep
at least $50 million of cash and equivalents in foreign currency and that the company has no near-term debt maturities.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

We estimate that principal liquidity sources over the 12
months from June 30, 2019, are as follows:

We estimate that principal liquidity uses over the same
period:

• Cash and cash equivalents (mostly sovereign and
Georgian corporate bonds) of GEL324 million, 88%
held in $); and

• Operating costs of around GEL20 million;

• Dividends from portfolio companies and interest
income of about GEL110 million.

• Interest expenses of approximately GEL50
million-GEL55 million;
• About GEL200 million of equity capital contributions
into its investee companies; and
• GEL50 million-GEL70 million of on-lending to
investee companies.

Debt maturities
A $300 million bond matures in 2024

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 8

JSC Georgia Capital

Covenant Analysis
The bond documentation contains a maintenance ratio of net debt to adjusted equity value of below 45%. As of March
31, 2019, Georgia Capital had significant headroom within these thresholds.

Issue Ratings - Subordination Risk Analysis
Capital structure
Georgia Capital's capital structure includes the $300 million unsecured bond.

Analytical conclusions
We rate the notes in line with our issuer credit rating on Georgia Capital, because no elements of subordination risk are
present in the capital structure.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B+/Stable/--

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: High
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Significant

• Cash flow/Leverage: Significant
Anchor: bbModifiers

• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Negative (-1 notch)
Stand-alone credit profile : b+

• Group credit profile: b+
• Related government rating: BB-

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, July 1, 2019

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 9

JSC Georgia Capital

• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, April 1, 2019
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Reflecting Subordination Risk In Corporate Issue Ratings, March 28, 2018
• Criteria | Corporates | Industrials: Methodology: Investment Holding Companies, Dec. 1, 2015
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate
Issuers, Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria | Corporates | Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Health Care Services Industry, April 16, 2014
• Criteria | Corporates | Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Pharmaceutical Industry, April 8, 2014
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria | Corporates | Utilities: Key Credit Factors For The Regulated Utilities Industry, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• Criteria | Financial Institutions | Banks: Banks: Rating Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 9, 2011
• Criteria | Financial Institutions | Banks: Banking Industry Country Risk Assessment Methodology And
Assumptions, Nov. 9, 2011
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Business Risk Profile

Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly leveraged

Excellent

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

Strong
Satisfactory

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Fair

Ratings Detail (As Of September 6, 2019)*
JSC Georgia Capital
Issuer Credit Rating

B+/Stable/--

Senior Unsecured

B+

Issuer Credit Ratings History
05-Jul-2018

B+/Stable/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 10

JSC Georgia Capital

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 11

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 12

