Wanda Commercial Properties (Hong
Kong) Co. Ltd.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Aeon Liang, Hong Kong (852) 2533-3563; aeon.liang@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Cindy H Huang, Hong Kong (852) 2533-3543; cindy.huang@spglobal.com
Research Contributor:
Harshil Doshi, CRISIL Global Analytical Center, an S&P affiliate, Mumbai

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Group Influence
Issue Ratings - Subordination Risk Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 1

Wanda Commercial Properties (Hong Kong) Co.
Ltd.
Business Risk: VULNERABLE

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

bbFinancial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b-

BB-/Positive/--

b-

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key strengths

Key risks

Potential liquidity support from parent.

Small scale and limited number of projects.

High integration with parent's operations and finance. High leverage because of status as the parent's offshore financing vehicle.

A key subsidiary of its parent. The credit profile of Wanda Commercial Properties (Hong Kong) Co. Ltd. (Wanda HK) is
enhanced by its highly strategic importance to its parent and 100% owner, Dalian Wanda Commercial Management
Group Co. Ltd (Wanda Commercial). The group has extended strong and consistent support since the establishment of
Wanda HK in 2013. Wanda HK serves as a sole platform that acts on the parent's behalf to issue offshore securities.
We expect Wanda Commercial to continue to fully own and have strong supervision and control over Wanda HK.

Outlook: Positive

The positive outlook on Wanda HK reflects the outlook on its parent, and our assessment that Wanda HK will
remain a highly strategic subsidiary of Wanda Commercial over the next 12 months.

Downside scenario
We could downgrade Wanda HK if we lower the rating on Wanda Commercial.

Upside scenario
We may upgrade Wanda HK if we take a similar action on Wanda Commercial.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 2

Wanda Commercial Properties (Hong Kong) Co. Ltd.

Company Description
Wanda HK was founded in 2013 and is 100% owned by Wanda Commercial. Wanda HK's major role is to act as
Wanda Commercial's sole offshore financing platform.

Business Risk: Vulnerable
Wanda HK's small scale, short operating record, and high dependence on its parent constrain its business risk profile.
Wanda HK was founded in 2013 and has a limited number of projects in China. In 2018, Wanda HK's total revenue
was Chinese renminbi (RMB) 1.9 billion, which is an increase of 50% from 2017, and about 2% of Wanda Commercial's
revenue in 2018.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
We expect Wanda HK to have high debt and weak cash flows over the next 12-18 months. The debt is likely to remain
high because the company will continue to take on substantial debt on behalf of Wanda Commercial. We believe
Wanda HK's debt is tied to Wanda Commercial's offshore funding activities. Wanda HK has total debt of RMB7.4
billion as of end-2018.

Liquidity: Adequate
Our assessment of Wanda HK's liquidity as adequate reflects our view of the liquidity of Wanda Commercial.
We assess Wanda Commercial's liquidity as adequate, given the company's high cash balance and manageable debt
maturities. We project the company's cash sources will exceed its cash uses by over 1.1x in 2019.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Unrestricted cash of RMB77.4 billion as of Dec. 31,
2018.

• Short-term debt of RMB22.6 billion as of Dec. 31,
2018.

• Cash funds from operations (FFO) of about RMB24
billion in 2019, comprising: (1) cash received from
attributable property sales, hotel rentals, rental
income, and other income of about RMB110 billion;
(2) construction costs of about RMB10.5 billion; (3)
interest expenses of about RMB9 billion; and (4)
selling, general and administrative expenses, taxes,
and others of about RMB67 billion.

• Capex and spending on acquisitions of about
RMB20 billion over the 12 months ending Dec. 31,
2019.
• Cash dividends that we estimate at RMB5.5 billion
for 2019.

• New onshore and offshore issuances of about RMB2
billion in January-March 2019.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 3

Wanda Commercial Properties (Hong Kong) Co. Ltd.

Group Influence
We assess Wanda HK as a highly strategic operating subsidiary of Wanda Commercial. Given Wanda HK's status, we
set our rating on the company at one level below the parent's group credit profile.
Our assessment of Wanda HK's group status is supported by the company's role as a wholly owned and sole offshore
investment and financing platform for Wanda Commercial.

Issue Ratings - Subordination Risk Analysis
Capital structure
As of Dec. 31, 2018, Wanda HK has 99.8% priority debt in its capital structure. Most debt is unsecured at subsidiaries
and are structurally in priority in relation to offshore senior unsecured notes.

Analytical conclusions
We rate Wanda HK's debt at 'B+', one notch below the issuer credit rating on the guarantor, to reflect significant
structural subordination risk in the capital structure.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
BB-/Positive/--

Business risk: Vulnerable

• Country risk: Moderately high
• Industry risk: Moderately high
• Competitive position: Vulnerable
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: bModifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: Neutral (no impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 4

Wanda Commercial Properties (Hong Kong) Co. Ltd.

Stand-alone credit profile : b-

• Group credit profile: bb
• Entity status within group: Highly strategic (+3 notches from SACP)

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, July 1, 2019
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, April 1, 2019
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Reflecting Subordination Risk In Corporate Issue Ratings, March 28, 2018
• Criteria | Corporates | Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Real Estate Industry, Feb. 26, 2018
• General Criteria: Guarantee Criteria, Oct. 21, 2016
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate
Issuers, Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria | Corporates | Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Homebuilder And Real Estate Developer Industry,
Feb. 3, 2014
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Timeliness Of Payments: Grace Periods, Guarantees, And Use Of 'D' And 'SD'
Ratings, Oct. 24, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities, Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Stand-Alone Credit Profiles: One Component Of A Rating, Oct. 1, 2010
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Business Risk Profile
Excellent
Strong
Satisfactory

Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Fair

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 5

Wanda Commercial Properties (Hong Kong) Co. Ltd.

Ratings Detail (As Of September 10, 2019)*
Wanda Commercial Properties (Hong Kong) Co. Ltd.
Issuer Credit Rating

BB-/Positive/--

Issuer Credit Ratings History
07-Aug-2019

BB-/Positive/--

29-May-2018

BB-/Stable/--

27-Sep-2017

BB-/Negative/--

17-Jul-2017

BB+/Watch Neg/--

12-Dec-2016

BB+/Negative/--

02-Feb-2016

BBB-/Negative/--

22-Jan-2016

BBB/Watch Neg/--

27-May-2015

BBB/Negative/--

Related Entities
Dalian Wanda Commercial Management Group Co. Ltd
Issuer Credit Rating

BB/Positive/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 6

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 7

