CoreLogic Inc.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Adam Lynn, New York (1) 212-438-2637; adam.lynn@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Minesh Patel, CFA, New York (1) 212-438-6410; minesh.patel@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 1

CoreLogic Inc.
Business Risk: FAIR

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

bb

bb

bb
BB/Stable/--

Financial Risk: SIGNIFICANT
Highly leveraged

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key Strengths

Key Risks

Leadership position in real estate data analytics

Exposure to cyclical mortgage originations

High barriers to entry through proprietary data sets

Moderate financial institution client concentration

Scalable business model with a focus on reducing costs leads to
consistent free operating cash flow (FOCF) generation

Use of free cash flow to fund its acquisitive growth strategy, as well as
return cash to shareholder through share buybacks

CoreLogic is exposed to the cyclicality in the mortgage market, with roughly 60% of revenues tied to mortgage volumes.
Significant downturns in mortgage loan origination would have a direct impact on revenues, with every $100 billion
movement in mortgage volumes resulting in $25 million topline impact for CoreLogic. We expect mortgage loan
origination to be roughly flat in 2019, as a result of increased refinancing activity being partially offset by a slow
purchase market (adjusting for housing price index gains), which will contribute to subdued performance in the
underwriting workflow solutions segment. Additionally, we believe higher interest rates would slow down mortgage
loan originations and decrease sales for the company overall.
CoreLogic has a leading position in the mortgage processing market, which has high barriers to entry. The company
also benefits from its unique proprietary data sets, including residential property data that is hard to replicate, amassed
over a long period through public and private sources. We consider CoreLogic a leader in its industry (which has high
switching costs), and its solutions are mission-critical and embedded in its clients' workflows.
We expect CoreLogic's credit measures to remain steady as its recurring revenue model provides good revenue stability
and free cash flow. The company has made an effort to cut costs and improve productivity, which we believe will help
expand margins roughly 100 basis points (bps)-200 bps over the next 12 months. We expect $225 million-$275 million
in free operating cash flow (FOCF) generation in fiscal 2019, as the company benefits from good operating leverage,
stable working capital needs, and modest capital expenditures (capex).

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 2

CoreLogic Inc.

Chart 1

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 3

CoreLogic Inc.

Outlook: Stable

S&P Global Ratings' stable outlook on Irvine, Calif.-based data analytics provider CoreLogic Inc. reflects our
positive view of the company's recurring revenues from data analytics, partly offset by its exposure to volatility in
the mortgage origination processing market. In 2019, we expect revenue to decline (in the low- to mid-single-digit
range) largely because of restructuring in its appraisal management company (AMC) business and roughly flat
mortgage unit volumes, while EBITDA margins expand in the second half of the year as a result of efficiency
investments and improved revenue mix. We forecast leverage will improve slightly in the second half of 2019, with
debt to EBITDA in the 4x area by year-end.

Downside scenario
We could lower the ratings on CoreLogic over the next 12 months if the company experiences increased
competition, prolonged restructuring costs, or if rising interest rates negatively affect mortgage origination, leading
to weaker revenue and earnings growth. We could also lower the ratings if management pursues more aggressive
financial policies, including significant debt-financed acquisitions or shareholder returns resulting in leverage above
4x on a sustained basis.

Upside scenario
Although unlikely over the next 12 months, we could raise the rating if the company can expand its analytics
businesses, resulting in increased earnings stability through mortgage origination cycles, and reduce leverage
below 3x on a sustained basis. An upgrade would also be contingent on management's commitment to maintain
leverage at or below these levels.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 4

CoreLogic Inc.

Assumptions

Key Metrics

• Real U.S. GDP growth of 2.5% in 2019 and 1.8% in
2020;
Adj. EBITDA margin (%)

• Low- to mid-single-digit decline in organic revenue
in 2019, reflecting the ongoing restructuring of the
AMC business, which could lead to $70 million-$100
million in revenue declines. Low-single-digit
percentage organic revenue growth expected in
2020 and beyond;

Adj. debt to EBITDA (x)
Adj. FOCF to Debt (%)

2018A

2019E

2020E

25.3

27-29

28-30

4.1 3.75-4.25 3.5-4.0
14.8

15-17

17-19

A--Actual. E--Estimate. FOCF--Free operating cash
flow. Adj.--Adjusted.

• Improving EBITDA margins in the 27%-29% area
over the next 12 months emanating from efficiency
investments and favorable product mix, with
margins expanding further by the end of 2020 as the
company completes its transitions to the Google
cloud;
• Mid-single-digit growth in U.S. mortgage
originations for 2019, as per Mortgage Bankers
Association (MBA) forecast;
• Capital expenditures (capex) of roughly $100 million
in 2019 due to increased spending on productivity
initiatives and transitioning to the Google cloud; $70
million-$90 million of capex spending in 2020 as
increased investments begin to normalize; and
• The company repurchases around $100 million of
outstanding share count in 2019.

Company Description
CoreLogic is a global property information, analytics, and data-enabled services provider operating primarily in North
America. The company combines data from public, contributory, and proprietary sources to provide coverage of
property, mortgages, and other encumbrances, consumer credit, tenancy, location, hazard risk, and related
performance information. The markets served include real estate and mortgage finance, insurance, capital markets,
and the public sector.
CoreLogic was incorporated in 1894 and is headquartered in Irvine, Calif. It has annual revenue of $1.79 billion in
fiscal 2018. The company reports revenue in two segments: Property Intelligence and Risk Management Solutions
(PIRM) and Underwriting and Workflow Solutions (UWS).

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 5

CoreLogic Inc.

Chart 2

Chart 3

Business Risk: Fair
The rating on CoreLogic incorporates our expectation that its leadership position in the mortgage processing market
and its focus on reducing costs will support relatively consistent profits and cash flow generation. The company has
benefited from increased regulatory scrutiny in the U.S., as financial services firms turn to large providers with
established track records and high-quality reputations. Key risks include exposure to the cyclical mortgage market,
modest customer concentration, and the potential for looser regulatory standards.
We expect mid-single-digit growth in U.S. mortgage loan originations for 2019, which translates to roughly flat
mortgage unit volume when incorporating gains in housing prices. Our forecast calls for low- to mid-single-digit
revenue declines in 2019, as flat mortgage volumes limit organic revenue growth for CoreLogic's mortgage processing
business, and as the company restructures its AMC business. The AMC restructuring focuses on reducing
labor-intensive, low-margin contracts, and will negatively impact revenues $70 million-$100 million over 2019 and
2020. Additionally, CoreLogic has moderate customer concentration. The 10 largest customers accounted for about
31% of total revenues at year-end 2018, down from 37% in 2017, because of a decline in business from mortgage
customers, and a gain in market share from non-banks such as Quicken Loans Inc. CoreLogic's position as one of the
leading third-party providers of mortgage market data partially offsets these risks.
Furthermore, the company's recurring revenue model and high barriers to entry due to its long-term relationships with
financial institutions, and unique data assets, support our assessment of the company's business risk profile. Corelogic
has amassed large, proprietary data sets for residential property information, from both public and private sources,
which are hard to replicate. Despite modest acquisition activity, total revenues for the first half of 2019 decreased
about 6% over the previous year, primarily because of declines in mortgage market unit volumes, the exit of noncore

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 6

CoreLogic Inc.

mortgage and default technology units, and a onetime revenue recognition benefit in the first half of 2018. We expect
EBITDA margins to improve by roughly 100 bps-200 bps over the next 12 months as the company benefits from
productivity and efficiency investments. We expect the company to realize roughly $20 million in cost savings from the
migration to the Google Cloud Platform, with the potential for additional savings by the end of 2020. The company
should also benefit from improved revenue mix as legacy AMC business begins to roll off.
In December 2018, the company acquired Symbility Solutions Inc. for approximately $80 million, which weighed on
margins for the first half of 2019. Symbility is a leading global provider of cloud-based property claims workflow
solutions for the property and casualty insurance industry, headquartered in Canada. Acquisitions contributed $59.5
million to 2018 revenues, with a majority contribution to the UWS segment.

Financial Risk: Significant
Our assessment of the company's financial risk profile reflects our expectation that leverage will decrease modestly to
around 4x in 2019, and further improve to the high-3x area by the end of 2020, primarily driven by mandatory debt
amortization payments and margin expansion.
In May 2019, the company amended its senior secured credit facility, increasing the size of the A-1 term loan by $175
million, to $1.575 billion, and extending the maturity of the A-1 term loan, $175 million A-2 term loan, and revolver to
May 2024. Also, the company upsized its revolver by $50 million to $750 million. The total net leverage covenant was
reset to 4.5x, where previously the covenant was set at 4x starting with the quarter ending Sept. 30, 2019. The
company used proceeds from the add-on mostly to repay borrowings on the revolving credit facility. We believe the
company will repay approximately $100 million in voluntary prepayments on the senior secured facility in 2019,
paying down $23 million early during the first quarter. In 2018, CoreLogic repurchased 2.3 million common shares,
and has stated its plan to repurchase 1.5 million to 2.5 million additional shares in 2019. The company continues to
exhibit moderate financial policies, with both an acquisition and organic-led growth strategy, along with returning cash
to shareholders through share buybacks.

Liquidity: Adequate
In our view, Corelogic has adequate liquidity. We anticipate coverage of uses in excess of 2x for the next 12-24 months
and positive net sources in the near term, even with a 20% decline in EBITDA.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 7

CoreLogic Inc.

Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Cash and marketable securities of about $82 million
as of June 30, 2019;

• Mandatory debt amortization payment of $90
million in full-year 2019 and 2020;

• $740 million of availability under the company's
$750 million revolving credit facility as of June 30,
2019; and

• Capital expenditures of about $100 million in 2019
and $70 million to $90 million in 2020;

• Free cash flow between $225 million and $275
million over the next 12 months.

• Annual share buyback in the range of $60 million to
$120 million; and
• Bolt-on acquisitions.

Debt maturities
Chart 4

Covenant Analysis
The credit agreement contains the following financial maintenance covenants: (i) a maximum total leverage ratio not
to exceed 4.50:1.00; (gradually stepping down to 3.75:1.00 on Sept. 30, 2022) and (ii) a minimum interest coverage
ratio of at least 3.00:1.00. The company had adequate cushion as of June. 30, 2019, and going forward, we expect it to
continue to maintain at least 15% EBITDA cushion under the financial covenants.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 8

CoreLogic Inc.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis

Key analytical factors
• Our simulated default in 2024 would primarily result from a failure in services or technological capability that
would lead to customer defections, accompanied by increased competition amid an economic slowdown,
ultimately hindering profitability and demand for CoreLogic's products and services.
• The senior secured credit facility consists of a $750 million revolving credit facility due May 2024, a $1.575
billion term loan A-1 due May 2024, and a $175 million term loan A-2 due May 2024. The revolving facility
includes a $100 million multi-currency sub-facility and $50 million letter of credit sub-facility.
• The credit facility is secured by substantially all domestic tangible and intangible assets of the borrower and
guarantors, in addition to a pledge of 65% of the capital stock of the company's first tier foreign subsidiaries.
• In a default, we believe the company would reorganize to maximize value to creditors, given its embedded
position in the mortgage markets and strong brand recognition.
• We have valued the company on a going-concern basis using a 6.5x multiple of our projected emergence
EBITDA.

Simulated default assumptions
• Simulated year of default: 2024
• EBITDA at emergence: $243 million
• EBITDA multiple: 6.5x

Simplified waterfall
• Net enterprise value (after 5% administrative costs): $1.5 billion. Valuation split in % (obligors/nonobligors):
90/10.
• Collateral value available to secured creditors: $1.45 billion.
• Secured first-lien debt: $2.02 billion.
• --Recovery expectations: 70% to 90% (rounded estimate: 70%).
• Senior unsecured debt and pari passu claims: $595 million
• --Recovery expectations: 0% to 10% (rounded estimate: 5%).

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
BB/Stable/--

Business risk: Fair

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 9

CoreLogic Inc.

• Competitive position: Fair
Financial risk: Significant

• Cash flow/Leverage: Significant
Anchor: bb
Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral
• Capital structure: Neutral
• Financial policy: Neutral
• Liquidity: Adequate
• Management and governance: Fair
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral
Stand-alone credit profile : bb

• Group credit profile: bb
• Entity status within group: Core (no impact)

Related Criteria
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Technology Software And Services Industry, Nov. 19,
2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 10

CoreLogic Inc.

Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Business Risk Profile

Minimal

Excellent

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

Fair

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

Weak

bb+

Vulnerable

bb-

Strong
Satisfactory

Modest

Intermediate

Aggressive

Highly leveraged

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

bbb

bb+

bb

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bb+

bb

bb-

b

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Significant

Ratings Detail (As Of August 22, 2019)*
CoreLogic Inc.
Issuer Credit Rating

BB/Stable/--

Senior Secured

BB+

Senior Unsecured

B+

Issuer Credit Ratings History
07-Mar-2014

BB/Stable/--

16-Nov-2012

BB/Positive/--

29-Feb-2012

BB/Stable/--

Related Entities
CoreLogic Australia Pty Ltd
Senior Secured

BB+

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 11

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 12

