Consolidated Aerospace
Manufacturing LLC
Primary Credit Analyst:
Alexandra Dima, CFA, Toronto + 1 (416) 507 3227; alexandra.dima@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Christopher A Denicolo, CFA, Washington D.C. (1) 202-383-2398; christopher.denicolo@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 1

Consolidated Aerospace Manufacturing LLC
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

b+

b+

b+

Financial Risk: AGGRESSIVE
Highly leveraged

B+/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key Strengths

Key Risks

Good program diversity for size

Small size compared to much larger competitors

Solid positions in niche markets

Acquisitive growth strategy that could lead to higher leverage than expected

Relationships with key original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) Profitability not improving as expected

Credit metrics came in weaker than expected in 2018, but should improve as margins increase and
revenues continue to grow.
Adjusted EBITDA margins declined modestly in 2018 to 19% from 21% in 2017, much lower than our expected level
of 22%-24% because of one-time costs and investments in new product development that were higher than forecasted.
We expect margins to improve in 2019 to 20%-22% due to the absence of one time charges, contribution margin from
additional capacity growth and higher sales, and efficiency initiatives.

The company has been making significant capital investments for capacity growth and operating
efficiencies.
Capital expenditures in 2019 will be almost double historical levels as the company invests in setting up a Mexico
facility. This will contribute capacity as new product introductions continue to increase. The facility also mitigates the
difficulty of finding additional labor at some of its higher-cost current locations.

We do not currently anticipate a large impact from the continued grounding of the Boeing 737 MAX.
Although CAM produces numerous products for the MAX, Boeing is still producing the aircraft, although at a lower
rate. The softening in demand from Boeing is offset by higher demand for other products. However, there could be a
more significant impact if the grounding is longer than expected or Boeing cuts production further or starts stretching
out payments.

Consolidated Aerospace Manufacturing LLC (CAM) is a relatively small aerospace supplier.
It competes against much larger fastener suppliers such as Arconic and Precision Castparts. However, it has
established a position as a reliable third source in a market with limited capacity to meet strong demand. It also has

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 2

Consolidated Aerospace Manufacturing LLC

leading positions in certain product lines.

Outlook: Stable

The stable outlook on CAM reflects that, although credit metrics have weakened in 2018, we expect continued
strong top-line growth and improved profitability to strengthen credit metrics in 2019. We expect debt to EBITDA
of 4.5x-5.0x by the end of 2019, improving below 4.5x by 2020.

Downside scenario
We could lower our ratings on CAM in the next 12 months if the company's debt to EBITDA remains above 5x and
we don't expect it to improve. This could occur if the company is unable to profitably increase its production, if
there are integration issues with acquisitions, or if the company undertakes additional large, debt-financed
acquisitions.

Upside scenario
It is unlikely that we would raise our rating on CAM during the next year because of its ownership by a
private-equity firm and the small scale of its operations. However, we could raise our ratings on CAM if its revenue
and earnings improve faster than we anticipate due to product introductions or productivity improvements and the
company uses its excess cash to reduce its debt while committing to maintain a debt-to-EBITDA metric of less
than 3.5x regardless of future acquisitions or dividends.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 3

Consolidated Aerospace Manufacturing LLC

Assumptions

• Continued growth in worldwide air traffic and
moderate production growth on popular aircraft
platforms;
• Revenue increases 20%-25% in 2019 driven by
contributions from recent acquisitions, new contract
wins, and additional acquisitions;
• Adjusted EBITDA margins of 20%-22% due to
higher-margin contributions from recent
acquisitions, fall off of one-time items from 2018,
and cost-saving initiatives;

Key Metrics

2018A

2019E

2020E

Debt to EBITDA (x)

6.9 4.5-4.9 4.1-4.5

FFO to debt (%)

9.7

13-17

14-18

FOCF to debt (%)

4.5

4-8

7-11

A--Actual. E—Estimate. FFO—Funds from operations.
FOCF—Free operating cash flow.

• Bolt-on acquisitions of $35 million in 2019 and $50
million annually starting in 2020;
• Elevated capital expenditures in 2019 as the
company invests in a new facility in Mexico; and
• No dividends.

Company Description
CAM engages in the design and manufacture of fittings, precision components, hardware, and fastening solutions,
primarily for the aerospace and defense industry. CAM also serves transportation, power generation, industrial
machinery, and other industries worldwide. CAM is a private company owned by Tinicum L.P.

Business Risk: Weak
CAM has good product diversity with over 16,000 SKUs helping meet the needs of different customers. Customer
diversity is also fairly good, with no customer accounting for more than 17% of revenues in 2018. CAM has historically
had good margins and we expect them to rebound back up after the margin decrease in 2018. These factors are
partially offset by the company's small size and lower-tier position in the market with larger competitors.

Financial Risk: Aggressive
Credit metrics are expected to improve in 2019, with debt to EBITDA declining to 4.5x-4.9x and FFO to debt
increasing to 13%-17% due to contribution margin from additional capacity growth, higher sales, and efficiency
initiatives. We expect the company to continue to generate positive free cash flow in 2019 and 2020, despite elevated
capex levels in 2019 to fund the Mexico facility. CAM will likely use its free cash flow for additional bolt-on
acquisitions. We do not expect the company to pay any dividends to its sponsor.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 4

Consolidated Aerospace Manufacturing LLC

Liquidity: Adequate
We expect liquidity to remain adequate, supported by internal cash generation and a $25 million revolving credit
facility. We expect sources of liquidity to be around 2.5x uses over the next 12 months and sources to exceed uses
even if EBITDA declined by 15%. However, we do not believe the company has a high standing in credit markets, can
sustain a high-impact, low-probability event without refinancing, or that management would take actions to sustain
this level of excess liquidity.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Cash and cash equivalents of $19 million as of
March 31, 2019;

• Capex of about $35 million in 2019; and
• Annual debt amortization of$3.8 million.

• Availability of $21 million under the revolving credit
facility due 2022, after accounting for outstanding
letters of credit; and
• Cash from operations of about $55 million over the
next 12 months.

Covenant Analysis
Compliance expectations
CAM's credit facility has a springing maximum net leverage covenant of 5.5x, which steps down to 5.25x after June
2019 and 5.0x after June 2020. This covenant is tested when the company's revolver usage exceeds 25% of the
facility's commitment. We do not expect the company to draw on its revolver over the next year, so the covenant is
unlikely to be tested. If it were tested we believe that CAM would maintain adequate cushion of over 15% under this
covenant.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• The '3' recovery rating on the company's first-lien credit facility remains unchanged.
• The facility comprises a $367 million (outstanding) term loan and a $25 million revolver, both of which are due in
2022.
• We have valued the company on a going-concern basis using a 5x multiple of our projected emergence EBITDA.
Other key assumptions at default include: LIBOR of 2.5% and the revolver is 85% drawn.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 5

Consolidated Aerospace Manufacturing LLC

Simulated default assumptions
• Default year: 2023
• EBITDA at emergence: $44 million
• Multiple: 5x

Simplified waterfall
• Net enterprise value after administrative expenses (5%): $210 million
• Valuation split (obligor/nonobligors): 100%/0%
• Collateral value available to first-lien creditors: $206 million
• Total first-lien debt: $388 million
• --Recovery expectations: 50%-70% (rounded estimate: 50%)

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B+/Stable/--

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Aggressive

• Cash flow/Leverage: Aggressive
Anchor: b+
Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral
• Capital structure: Neutral
• Financial policy: FS-5 (no additional impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate
• Management and governance: Fair
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral
Stand-alone credit profile : b+

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 6

Consolidated Aerospace Manufacturing LLC

Related Criteria
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Aerospace And Defense Industry, March 25, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Business Risk Profile

Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly leveraged

Excellent

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

Ratings Detail (As Of August 20, 2019)*
Consolidated Aerospace Manufacturing, LLC
Issuer Credit Rating

B+/Stable/--

Senior Secured

B+

Issuer Credit Ratings History
16-Jul-2015

B+/Stable/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 7

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 8

