Commercial Vehicle Group Inc.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Nick Santoro, New York + 1 (212) 438 1201; nick.santoro@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Robyn P Shapiro, New York (1) 212-438-7224; robyn.shapiro@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Environmental, Social, And Governance
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 1

Commercial Vehicle Group Inc.
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b

b

b

B/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key strengths

Key risks

Ability to manufacture low volume, customized products.

Small scale, narrow product scope, and limited geographic footprint.

Record 2018 revenues supported debt reduction.

The commercial vehicle industry is highly cyclical.
Rising labor and raw material costs can pressure profitability.

While the company's revenues continue to improve in 2019, we expect commercial vehicle production to soften in 2020.
Following a strong North American Class 8 (heavy duty) truck market in 2019, we expect lower production levels in
2020. Sales at Commercial Vehicle Group Inc. (CVG) are relatively concentrated, with about 50% of revenues from the
North American commercial truck market and 20% from sales to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) in the
global construction equipment market. As such, we expect CVG's revenue growth in the high-single-digit percent area
in 2019, followed by a decline in revenues in 2020.
We expect higher raw material and labor costs to continue to pressure profitability in 2019. We assume higher
revenues in 2019, driven by strong North American medium- and heavy-duty truck demand, will be offset by raw
material price increases and higher labor costs. The tight U.S. labor market and the higher minimum wage in Mexico,
especially along the U.S. border where CVG's wire harness facility is located, have contributed to higher labor costs.
We expect increased capital spending to continue as the company expands its manufacturing footprint. CVG spent
$12.7 million on capital expenditures in the first half of 2019, up from $5.2 million in the first half of 2018, to finance
the expansion of three new manufacturing facilities. These investments will facilitate expansion of CVG's wire harness
capabilities in Mexico and Ukraine, as well as provide a dedicated facility for large trim molding, also in Mexico. While
the expanded manufacturing footprint will allow sharing of overhead costs and provide growth capacity for new and
existing customers, capital expenditures are expected to remain high for the remainder of 2019, which will weigh down
free operating cash flow (FOCF).

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 2

Commercial Vehicle Group Inc.

Outlook: Negative

Our stable outlook on CVG reflects our belief that the company's debt leverage will remain less than 4x in 2019,
while its FOCF remains in line with good commercial vehicle and construction equipment revenue growth.

Downside scenario
We could lower our ratings on CVG over the next 12 months if elevated cash outflows relating to capital spending,
acquisitions, or restructuring significantly affects overall liquidity. We could also lower our ratings if weak demand
takes a toll on CVG's operating performance. For example, we could lower the ratings if debt leverage exceeds 5x
or if FOCF remains negative for a sustained period.

Upside scenario
Although unlikely, we could raise our ratings on CVG over the next 12 months if we expect the company to sustain
its adjusted debt leverage at less than 4x through a cyclical downturn. In addition, we would expect the company
to maintain positive cash flow generation, including a FOCF-to-debt ratio of more than 10%.

Our Base-Case Scenario
Assumptions

Key Metrics

• U.S. GDP growth of 2.5% in 2019 and 1.8% in 2020.
• Revenue increases in the high-single-digit percent
area in 2019, but turning negative in 2020. Revenue
growth is primarily driven by growth in the North
American commercial vehicle market and the level
of large-scale infrastructure development projects.

Debt to EBITDA (x)
FFO to debt (%)

2018A

2019E

2.1

2.2-2.4

37.1 High 30% area

A--Actual. E--Estimate. FFO--Funds from operations.

• We expect lower EBITDA margins in 2019 and
2020, due to increased raw material and labor costs.
• We continue to expect the company to incur capital
expenditures in the range of $10 million-$15 million
annually over the next two years.

Base-case projections
Commercial Vehicle Group's credit metrics have improved, but we assume 2019 is the peak of the heavy duty truck
cycle. CVG's EBITDA growth is a result of revenue growth and cost cutting initiatives that have widened margins. We
expect EBITDA to remain flat in 2019 compared to 2018. Although the company has experienced meaningful
improvement in its credit metrics over the last few years, we expect demand and production levels to soften in 2020,
which could result in lower earnings and higher debt leverage.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 3

Commercial Vehicle Group Inc.

Company Description
Commercial Vehicle Group Inc. (CVG) is a supplier of a full range of cab-related products and systems for the global
commercial vehicle market, including the medium- and heavy-duty truck market, the medium- and heavy construction
vehicle market, and the military, bus, agriculture, specialty transportation, mining, industrial equipment and off road
recreational markets.

Business Risk: Weak
CVG is exposed to highly cyclical end markets, which can be more volatile than the overall economy. CVG depends on
the economically sensitive heavy-duty truck market (50% of its revenue in the first half of 2019) and global
construction equipment industry (20% of revenues). The company's remaining sales and services serve the
aftermarket, which exhibits less volatility in our view. CVG's customers are heavily influenced by the strength of the
industrial sector, which generates a significant portion of the freight tonnage that commercial vehicles haul. We believe
a full down-cycle in the North American class 8 truck market could lead CVG's customers to in-source their cab
assembly in order to utilize their excess capacity.
CVG has geographic, market, and customer concentrations, and is exposed to changes in commodity costs. We expect
the company to capitalize on a number of product launches and various market growth opportunities, including
manufacturing plant expansions into Mexico and Ukraine. Therefore, we expect the company's capital spending to be
elevated over the next year. CVG's labor force, however, is highly variable and can be cut when production volumes
falter.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
Although we expect CVG's 2019 adjusted debt-to-EBITDA to remain easily remain less than 4x, we believe debt
leverage could significantly increase during times of stress. In addition, we note the company's FOCF turned positive
in 2018, driven by its revenue growth and margin expansion. While we expect FOCF to remain positive in 2019, we
see demand softening 2020, and FOCF could decrease.

Liquidity: Adequate
We believe CVG has adequate sources of liquidity to cover its needs over the next 12-18 months. We expect CVG's
sources of liquidity, including cash and credit facility availability, to exceed 4x its uses over the next year, and
anticipate that its net sources of liquidity will remain positive even if its EBITDA declines by 15%. We expect the
company will pursue prudent financial risk management, though it lacks the ability to absorb high-impact,
low-probability events without refinancing.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 4

Commercial Vehicle Group Inc.

Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Cash and cash equivalents of about $61 million as of
June 30, 2019;

• Annual maintenance capital spending of about $10
million to $15 million;

• Availability of roughly $62 million under a $65
million asset-based revolving credit facility, as of
June 30, 2019, with an additional $25 million of
availability pro forma for the recent revolver
upsizing to $90 million from $65 million; and

• About $4.4 million in annual amortization on the
company's term loan B; and
• Modest working capital needs.

• Funds from operations (FFO) of $55 million to $65
million.

Covenant Analysis
Under the company's term loan B, financial covenants include a maximum total leverage ratio of 5.0x, with a stepdown
to 4.75x in first quarter 2020. We expect the company to maintain adequate headroom under its financial covenants.

Environmental, Social, And Governance

As with all commercial vehicle suppliers, CVG's business is indirectly affected by government regulations
applicable to its commercial vehicle OEM customers, which primarily relate to emissions, noise, and safety
standards imposed by regulatory agencies around the world. Changes in emission standards and other
governmental regulations could affect the demand for commercial vehicles and, as a result, CVG's operations.
CVG's manufacturing facilities are subject to foreign, federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the
protection of the environment. These strictures have generally become more stringent over time. The company
has made investments to certify several of its facilities as compliant with international environmental management
standards and is developing environmental management systems.
Social factors do not play a major role in our ratings for CVG. Approximately 15% of the company's 2018
workforce was salaried and the remainder was hourly. As of year-end 2018, approximately 53% of the employees
in the company's North American operations were unionized, with most unionized workers based in Mexico. About
68% of the company's European, Asian and Australian operations were represented by shop steward committees.
The company has not experience any major strikes, lockouts or work stoppages during the last few years, and
considers its relationship with employees to be satisfactory. CVG uses contract and temporary employees during
periods of peak demand. Conversely, the company uses flexible scheduling, furloughs and reductions in force as
necessary when demand weakens.
Governance risks are low for now because CVG will likely extend its good record of disciplined capital allocation.
This should help it navigate through any cyclical downturn.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 5

Commercial Vehicle Group Inc.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• Our simulated default scenario contemplates a payment default resulting from a cyclical downturn in North
American commercial truck production following a disappointing level of fleet replacement purchases, intense
pricing pressures from its customers during a period of stagnant demand, predatory pricing by its competitors, and a
significant falloff in business due to the loss of one of its major customers.
• We believe that if CVG were to default, a viable business model would remain because of the company's market
position and customer relationships. Therefore, we believe that debt holders would achieve the greatest recovery
value through reorganization rather than through liquidation.
• LIBOR of 250 basis points;
• The $90 million asset-based lending facility is 60% utilized.
• We apply a 5x multiple to the default EBITDA to value the enterprise, which is in line with peers.

Simulated default assumptions

Simplified waterfall

• Simulated year of default: 2022

• Net enterprise value (after 5% admin. costs): $143
million

• EBITDA at emergence: $29 million
• EBITDA multiple: 5x

• Obligor/nonobligor valuation split: 70%/30%
• Value distributed to priority claims: $83 million
• Value available to first-lien debt: $55 million
• Estimated first-lien claim: $157 million
• —Recovery range: 30%-50% (rounded estimate:
35%)
Note: All debt amounts include six months of
prepetition interest. Collateral value equals asset
pledge from obligors after priority claims, plus equity
pledge from nonobligors after nonobligor debt.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B/Stable/--

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: Very low

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 6

Commercial Vehicle Group Inc.

• Industry risk: Moderately high
• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: b
Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: FS-6 (no additional impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate
• Management and governance: Fair
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral
Stand-alone credit profile : b

Related Criteria
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Auto Suppliers Industry, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 7

Commercial Vehicle Group Inc.

Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Business Risk Profile
Excellent
Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

Ratings Detail (As Of September 20, 2019)*
Commercial Vehicle Group Inc.
Issuer Credit Rating

B/Stable/--

Senior Secured

B

Issuer Credit Ratings History
26-Feb-2015

B/Stable/--

12-Dec-2013

B/Negative/--

22-Jul-2013

B/Stable/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 8

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 9

