Plastipak Holdings Inc.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Daniel Lee1, CFA, New York + 1 (212) 438 2716; daniel.lee1@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Michael Tsai, New York + 1 (212) 438 1084; michael.tsai@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 1

Plastipak Holdings Inc.
Business Risk: FAIR

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b

b+

b+

B+/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key Strengths

Key Risks

Established player in the rigid plastic packaging space, with sizable
market share in the beverage, food, and home personal care
markets.

High customer concentration, which limits pricing upside, and significant
preform sales constrain operating margins that are consistently below other
packaging players.

Longstanding customer relationships with notable global brands
that have lasted decades.

Negative market sentiment toward single-use plastics, particularly for
beverage products.

Primarily serves nondiscretionary end markets, which provides
predictable, recurring revenue.

Pending Goldman equity redemption could result in additional debt
financing and deteriorating issue-level ratings.

Beverage products likely to feel the bulk of increased scrutiny toward single-use plastics. Increasingly negative
sentiment towards plastics could have an impact on Plastipak's beverage packaging solutions business, given its
exposure to smaller format, single-use containers and the wide availability of alternative substrates (i.e. aluminum
cans, paper cartons). These headwinds are somewhat offset by the company's focus on increasing its use of recycled
content and its dedicated, growing recycling asset base.
Overall operating performance remains steady, despite increasingly negative sentiment. Despite the negative market
sentiment towards plastics, overall demand remains steady as growth in food and consumer cleaning solutions has
greatly offset declines in beverage. We expect this trend to continue and to support modest EBITDA growth and
positive free cash flows over the next year.
Pending Goldman equity redemption could weaken issue level ratings. Goldman can put its remaining ownership
interest, which we value at approximately $125 million, to Plastipak in Oct. 2020. Any resulting debt issuance to fund
the put could result in deteriorating issue-level ratings on the company's senior secured credit facilities and senior
unsecured notes.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 2

Plastipak Holdings Inc.

Outlook: Stable

S&P Global Ratings' stable outlook on Plastipak Holdings Inc. reflects our expectation that relatively stable end
markets, improved product mix, and ongoing productivity initiatives will offset flat sales volumes, ongoing pricing
pressures, and customer rebates. We expect operating results to support positive free cash flows and a modest
improvement in credit metrics, though we still expect leverage to be around 5x over the next year.

Downside scenario
We could lower our ratings on Plastipak if we expected debt to EBITDA to exceed 6x on a sustained basis. We
estimate this could occur if Plastipak sales growth and operating margins contracted by 200 basis points (bps) and
150 bps, respectively, from our base-case scenario.

Upside scenario
We could raise our ratings if Plastipak can improve debt to EBITDA closer to 4x on sustained basis. This could
occur over the next 12 months if the company's revenue growth and operating margins both improve by about 200
bps above our base-case scenario.

Our Base-Case Scenario
Assumptions

Key Metrics

• U.S. real GDP growth rate of 2.5% in 2019 and 1.8%
in 2020.

2018A
EBITDA Margin (%)

• Eurozone real GDP rate rate of 1.1% in 2019 and
1.3% in 2020.
• Flat to low-single-digit percentage revenue growth
in 2019 and 2020, driven by increased resin prices
and flat unit volume growth.

FFO to debt (%)
Debt to EBITDA (X)

2019E

2020E

8.5 8.5-9.0 8.5-9.0
13.7

13-14

14-15

5.4 5.0-5.5 4.5-5.0

A--Actual. E--Estimate. FFO--Funds from operations.

• EBITDA margins modestly improving to 8.5%-9.0%
range through 2020, benefitting from better price
mix and operational improvements, somewhat offset
by price reductions and customer rebates.
• Capital expenditures between $125 million-$135
million, or about 4% of sales.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 3

Plastipak Holdings Inc.

Company Description
Michigan-based Plastipak is a designer and manufacturer of finished rigid plastic packaging solutions and pre-forms
used in beverage, consumer, food, and industrial applications. The company offers a broad selection of packaging
solutions, ranging from single-use beverage containers to value-add aersol containers. The company services
approximately 1,300 customers, including global brands such as Proctor & Gamble and PepsiCo, through 41 facilities
located in North America, Europe, and South America.
Chart 1

Chart 2

Business Risk: Fair
Our assessment reflects Plastipak established market share in niche product categories, long-term customer
relationships, and nondiscretionary end markets, somewhat offset by its notable customer concentration, constrained
operating margins that are below that of other packaging companies, and increased market pressures on single-use
plastics.
Plastipak operates in the highly competitive plastic packaging market and competes directly with much larger players
such as Berry Global Group Inc., Graham Packaging (subsidiary of Reynolds Group Holdings Ltd.), Consolidated
Container Co. LLC, and Silgan Corp. Despite these market dynamics, Plastipak enjoys established market share within
specific product categories, such as carbonated beverages, and tenured customer relationships that have endured
despite ongoing industry consolidation and increased competition. Key customers include global players such as
Procter & Gamble Co., PepsiCo Inc., Kraft Heinz, and Keurig Dr Pepper Inc., with whom Plastipak has relationships in
excess of 20 years. Plastipak maintains operations in close proximity to customers and continues to invest heavily in
its facilities and product development to support customers' growth. The company has a track record of product
innovation that has enabled it to gain share in relatively mature markets. A recent example is the introduction of

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 4

Plastipak Holdings Inc.

plastic aerosol containers, which shifted customers away from metal-based products. We believe these factors support
Plastipak's tenured relationship as a valued partner and we expect this dynamic to endure; the company is often the
sole supplier for many of its customers' needs. In addition, the majority of Plastipak's customers represent stable,
nondiscretionary end markets, thereby providing good visibility and predictable sales volumes through the economic
cycle. We expect these dynamics to endure.
However, customer concentration is a notable risk, with Plastipak's top ten customers accounting for roughly 60% of
total sales. As global brands, these customers regularly leverage their scale and purchasing power, thereby limiting
Plastipak's pricing upside. In addition, lower margin preforms represent roughly a third of overall sales. These factors
combine to constrain the company's operating margins, which are consistently below that of packaging peers.
Although the increasingly negative market sentiment toward plastic packaging will be a sustained headwind for
Plastipak, we believe the impact will be focused on specific product categories, such as non-/carbonated beverages
and processed juices, which represent approximately half of total sales. We believe these segments are most
vulnerable to market pressures, given their exposure to single-use plastic consumables. Within these product
categories, we believe Plastipak's smaller packaging formats (i.e. 20 ounces and less) are most susceptible to
substitution risk as alternative solutions (i.e. aluminum cans, glass bottles, paper-based containers) are already well
established. Substitution risk for larger beverage formats (i.e. one liter and greater) is relatively modest as we do not
believe there are viable alternative solutions that can be produced on a global scale or a cost efficient basis. While
market sentiment will also pressure Plastipak's other product categories, we believe these challenges are manageable.
We do not believe that current alternative substrates, when compared to plastic, can consistently provide the same
value proposition in terms of production cost, safety, and functionality for liquid-based content such as aerosols,
consumer cleaning products, and food condiments. This dynamic may change over time, but we expect that it will take
several years for the market to develop and adopt viable alternative solutions on a large scale. A more likely near-term
alternative appears to be the increased usage of recycled content, which Plastipak has actively done for several
decades. Through its Clean Tech operations, Plastipak is one of the largest producers of recycled resin. Over the next
several years, we expect the company to aggressively expand its plastic recycling assets while increasing the
proportion of recycled content used in production. However, this alternative is also somewhat constrained as the
supply of recycling assets and recycled resin far outweighs demand.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
Our assessment reflects our expectation that flat to moderate sales growth combined with stable operating margins
will support positive free cash flows and leverage of around 5.0x-5.5x.
Despite increasing market scrutiny on the use of plastic packaging, Plastipak's operating performance has remained
resilient. Overall demand volume has been relatively steady, with unit volumes down 0.9% (inclusive of the prior year
having an extra week) through the first half of 2019 (1H19), while fiscal 2018 saw unit volumes up 3.2%. On a product
basis, volume declines in beverages and industrials were offset by gains in the consumer and food categories.
Operating margins saw modest improvement through 1H19 as improved price mix and raw material pass-throughs
more than offset customer rebates and price concession; adjusted EBITDA margins for 1H19 improved 60 bps versus

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 5

Plastipak Holdings Inc.

the prior year while gross EBITDA grew by $12.7 million.
We expect these trends to continue through the remainder of fiscal 2019 and over the next 12 months. We expect
sales volumes to be flat, with declines in beverages to be offset by gains in consumer and food. We also expect flat to
modestly improving operating margins, driven primarily through improved price mix. These factors should support
continued positive free cash flows over the next 12 months.
The company's revolving credit facility usage remains somewhat volatile, with sizable monthly borrowings and
repayments a recurring theme. While we expect these volatile trends to continue due to the businesses' seasonality, we
also believe there is room for improvement and that improved working capital usage is a focus area for management
over the next 12 months.
As of the end of the second quarter 2019, Goldman Sachs maintained a 9.9% ownership in Plastipak, valued at
approximately $125 million, which Goldman can "put" to Plastipak in Oct. 2020. If Plastipak is unable to fully redeem
Goldman's equity interest, Goldman can pursue a sale of the entire company. Plastipak has actively reduced
Goldman's ownership stake through revolver borrowings. Over the next year, we expect Plastipak to continue
monetizing Goldman's equity stake, though the magnitude is still to be determined. Our credit metrics reflect
Goldman's remaining equity interest as debt. Therefore, we do not expect any meaningful change in our credit metrics
once Goldman's put comes due.
As Goldman's put approaches maturity, we expect that Plastipak will evaluate multiple funding sources, including
additional revolver borrowings, debt, and equity financing. Although we don't expect a significant change in our overall
credit metrics, given Goldman's equity is already being treated as debt, we do anticipate a change to the company's
capital structure, particularly if it pursues additional debt financing as an option. This in turn could impact our issue
level ratings and recovery ratings on the company's senior secured credit facilities and senior unsecured notes.

Liquidity: Adequate
We assess Plastipak's liquidity as adequate. We expect the company's sources will be around 1.9x its uses, and believe
net sources will remain positive even if EBITDA decreases by 15% from our projected levels. We also believe the
company's qualitative liquidity measures support our adequate assessment. In particular, we believe the company's
tightening leverage covenant and potential share repurchase limit Plastipak's ability to withstand an extreme
high-impact, low-probability event without some need for refinancing.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 6

Plastipak Holdings Inc.

Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Balance sheet cash of about $40.5 million as of May
4, 2019;

• Total working capital (including seasonal outflows)
of around $105 million pear year;

• About $259 million in borrowing capacity under the
company's revolving credit facility as of May 4,
2019; and

• Capital spending of about $125 million to $135
million per year over the next 12-24 months;

• Funds from operations (FFO) between $180 million
and $200 million over the next 12-24 months.

• Debt amortization of about $12.5 million annually
(including term loan and mortgage debt); and
• Annual dividends of around $10 million.

Debt maturities
Chart 3

Covenant Analysis
Compliance expectations
As of May 4, 2019, Plastipak was in compliance with its maximum secured leverage ratio covenant and minimum
interest coverage ratio covenant. We expect the company will maintain compliance with these covenants over the
next 12 months.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 7

Plastipak Holdings Inc.

Requirements
Plastipak's credit agreement requires the company maintain a maximum secured net leverage ratio of 4.50x, which
steps down to 4.25x on the first fiscal quarter ending Nov. 2, 2019, and to 4.0x on the first fiscal quarter ending Oct. 31,
2020. The credit agreement also requires the company to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio of 2.50x.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• Our simulated default scenario assumes a payment default in 2023 stemming from declining volume on lower
end-market demand and increased competition. In addition, market conditions would inhibit the company's ability
to pass through rising input costs and operating leverage would deteriorate in conjunction with declining volumes.
As a result, cash flows would deteriorate to the extent that the company would not be able to cover interest
expense, debt amortization, working capital, and maintenance capital expenditures. Eventually, the company's
liquidity would become strained to the point where the company cannot continue to operate without a bankruptcy
filing.
• We believe the company's underlying business would continue to have considerable value and expect that Plastipak
would emerge from bankruptcy, rather than liquidate.
• We assume the company will seek covenant amendments on its path to default--resulting in higher interest
costs--and anticipate it will have drawn approximately 85% on its revolving credit facilities.
• We assess recovery prospects on the basis of a gross reorganization value for Plastipak of approximately $996.6
million, reflecting about $181.2 million of emergence EBITDA and a 5.5x multiple.

Simulated default assumptions
• Simulated year of default: 2023
• EBITDA at emergence: $181.2 million
• EBITDA multiple: 5.5x
• Gross enterprise value: $996.6 billion

Simplified waterfall
• Net enterprise value (after 5% admin. costs): $947 million
• Valuation split in % (obligors/non-obligors): 70/30
• Priority claims: $80.6 million
• Value available to first-lien debt claims: $770.5 million
• Secured first-lien debt claims: $897.5 million
• --Recovery expectations: (70%-90%: rounded estimate 85%)
• Value available to unsecured claims: $92.2 million
• Total Unsecured claims: $642.6 million
• --Recovery expectations: (10%-30%: rounded estimate 10%)

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 8

Plastipak Holdings Inc.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B+/Stable/--

Business risk: Fair

• Country risk: Low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Fair
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: b
Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: Neutral (no impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Positive (+1 notch)
Stand-alone credit profile : b+

• Group credit profile: b+

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, July 1, 2019
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, April 1, 2019
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Containers And Packaging Industry, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 9

Plastipak Holdings Inc.

• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

Fair

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Business Risk Profile
Excellent
Strong
Satisfactory

Ratings Detail (As Of August 22, 2019)*
Plastipak Holdings Inc.
Issuer Credit Rating

B+/Stable/--

Senior Unsecured

B

Issuer Credit Ratings History
28-Sep-2017

B+/Stable/--

19-Aug-2010

BB-/Stable/--

23-Jul-2009

BB-/Positive/--

Related Entities
Plastipak Packaging Inc.
Issuer Credit Rating

B+/Stable/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 10

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 11

