Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited
Primary Credit Analyst:
Kah Ling Chan, Singapore (65) 6239-6336; kahling.chan@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Bertrand P Jabouley, CFA, Singapore (65) 6239-6303; bertrand.jabouley@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Government Influence
Rating List
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 1

Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited
Credit Highlights
Issuer Credit Rating
AAA/Stable/A-1+

Overview
Key strengths

Key risks

Sizable and well-diversified portfolio of quality assets.

Significant exposure to volatile financial services and emerging economies.

Consistent record of prudent investment and active asset rotation. Steady increase in unlisted investments.
Robust cash flow adequacy.

Infrequent and limited, albeit improving, information disclosure.

Track record of net cash at the parent level.
Our view of strong support from the Singapore government.

Temasek's credit quality remains unchanged even as an increasing portion of investments are unlisted.
Singapore-headquartered investment holding company Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited's increasing tilt toward
unlisted investments weakens the asset liquidity of the company's portfolio. However, this is tempered by the
increased asset diversity of its portfolio and steady reduction in the portfolio concentration of key assets, stemming
from an expanding portfolio size.
Temasek's continued strong affiliation with the government of Singapore. We maintain our view that there is an
extremely high likelihood of extraordinary and timely support from the government of Singapore to Temasek, given
the company's strategic role in the local economy.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 2

Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited

Outlook

The stable outlook on Temasek's rating reflects our opinion that Temasek's close relationship with, and the
likelihood of extraordinary and timely support from, the government will remain intact over the next 24 months.
We also expect the portfolio concentration of key assets to improve or remain at current level as Temasek
continuously expands its portfolio.

Downside scenario
We would lower the rating on Temasek if we lower the sovereign rating on Singapore, or believe the government's
commitment to the company has reduced. Given our view of the extremely high likelihood of extraordinary
support from the government of Singapore, we would downgrade Temasek if its standalone credit profile (SACP)
deteriorates to below 'aa-'.
We would lower the SACP on Temasek if we saw a deterioration in assets' weighted credit quality to below 'bbb-'.
This could happen if Temasek substantially increased its exposure to start-up projects, unlisted assets or generally
to companies with weaker credit profile. We would also lower the SACP on Temasek if asset diversity dropped, or
if the proportion of unlisted portfolio continued to increase beyond 50%.
In a remote scenario, negative rating pressure could also escalate on the company's SACP if its loan-to-value ratio
rose above 10% on a sustained basis, prompting us to reconsider our view of Temasek's very conservative capital
structure. This could occur if the company undertook large net debt-funded additions to its portfolio or provided
financial support to its investee companies, such that it could no longer distance itself from their operating and
financial risks. We could also reconsider our assessment of Temasek's strategic investment capability in that case,
if we believed it reflected a structural and permanent shift to a more aggressive financial policy from its current
stance of having limited debt.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 3

Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited

Assumptions

• Temasek continues to be guided by its four
investment themes, namely transforming
economies, a rising middle class, deepening
comparative advantages, and emerging champions.
In addition, the themes are supplemented by six
structural trends: longer lifespans, rising affluence,
sustainable living, smarter systems, more connected
world, and a sharing economy. These guidelines
leave the company with substantial flexibility when
it comes to investing across countries and industries,
and in its investment horizon.
• There could be sustained asset rotation, as Temasek
regularly buys and sell shares based on its return
considerations.

Key Metrics

2019A 2020E 2021E
Loan-to-value (%)

(10.3)

<0

<0

Cash flow adequacy (x)

> 0.7

> 0.7

> 0.7

A--Actual. E--Estimate. Loan-to-value (LTV) is defined
as: {gross debt - cash and cash equivalents, and
short-term investments} divided by [net portfolio +
gross debt – cash and cash equivalents, and short-term
investments]. Reported values as of fiscal year end,
March 31, 2019: Gross debt: Singapore dollar (S$) 15.1
billion (US$11.1 billion). Net portfolio: S$313 billion.
Cash and cash equivalents, and short-term
investments: S$44.2 billion. Cash flow adequacy is
defined as cash dividends, interest and fund
distributions received divided by cash operating and
tax expenses, and interest paid. Temasek only
communicates on its net cash position and does not
publicly disclose its cash flow adequacy ratio.

Company Description
Temasek was established in 1974 to assume ownership of a diversified portfolio of companies from the Singapore
government (valued at S$354 million at that time), and it operates on commercial principles. The Minister for Finance,
a body corporate under the Singapore Minister for Finance (Incorporation) Act (Chapter 183), holds 100% of Temasek,
which the Singapore Constitution identifies as a key institution of the country.

Business Risk
Temasek's strong assets portfolio characteristics and above-average investment capabilities continue to underpin its
credit quality. We anticipate that Temasek will continue to prudently and actively manage its investments.
Temasek's portfolio diversity has been improving, which in our view reduces concentration risk and overall portfolio
valuation volatility. The concentration of key assets have reduced over the past few years, underpinned by an
expanding portfolio base. The proportion of top three assets have decreased substantially to 19% in fiscal 2019, from
25% five years ago.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 4

Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited

Chart 1

We believe Temasek's portfolio continues to exhibit strong credit quality. We estimate the weighted credit quality of
Temasek's portfolio to be investment grade. Our ratings on close to 40% of the investments (in terms of value) are 'A-'
and above.
However, Temasek's increasing proportion of unlisted assets weigh on its portfolio characteristics. This is because we
view quoted investments as easier to liquidate and more creditworthy than unlisted investments--though a number of
unlisted companies have high creditworthiness, such as Singapore's port operator PSA International Pte. Ltd.
(AA/Stable/--) and power distributor Singapore Power Ltd. (AA/Stable/--). As of end March 2019, unlisted assets
accounted for about 42% of the S$313 billion net portfolio, the highest ever.
We believe there will be a continued rebalancing of its portfolio mix toward unlisted investments to generate better
returns. Based on S&P's estimates, unlisted assets have more than doubled in value to S$131 billion from S$53 billion
as of March 31, 2012.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 5

Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited

Chart 2

In addition, the actual liquidity of Temasek's large Singapore-incorporated holdings may be more limited than what
their listed nature suggests.
Temasek's net portfolio value of S$313 billion on March 31, 2019--continues to cover a broad range of geographies
and industry sectors such as financial services (25% of total), telecommunications, media & technology (20%),
Consumer & real estate (17%), transportation & industrials (16%), life sciences & agribusiness (7%) and others (15%).
Notably, its exposure to growth regions(39%) and the financial services sector could result in some portfolio volatility.
In our view, Temasek will continue to exhibit above-average strategic investment capability. We assume Temasek's
management will extend its sound record of rotating assets, cautious risk management, and disciplined investment
practices. In the past seven years, the company has invested S$25 billion and divested S$19 billion annually on
average, i.e. 9% and 7% of its average portfolio in the period.

Financial Risk
Temasek's sustainable track record of limited debt and robust cash flow adequacy anchors our capital structure
assessment. We anticipate the company will sustain its net cash position (defined as debt less cash and cash equivalent

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 6

Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited

and short-term investments) over the next 24 months at least. While Temasek's net investments over 2013-2019
amounted to S$41 billion, borrowings remained stable and consistently accounted for less than half of liquidity
balances. This is owing to the company's strong cash flow adequacy and flexible net returns (dividend paid net of
equity infusions) to the Minister for Finance. Temasek's liquidity balance has exceeded its debt since 2004.
We also believe the company will keep enjoying solid cash returns from its portfolio. This expectation is underpinned
by our opinion of Temasek's strategic influence on a number of subsidiaries' operations, and of their generous dividend
policy, which is reinforced by Temasek's controlling stakes in the entities. It would take a severe reduction in cash
dividend income for the company's cash flow adequacy to fall below 1.0x--the point at which Temasek would have to
use its cash to pay interest, tax and operating expenses.
Temasek's disclosure of financial information is not on par with listed companies with similar ratings. As an unlisted
company, Temasek discloses financial information only annually and on a consolidated basis. However, the content of
information has been improving over the past years, with more public disclosure of unconsolidated financial
information.

Liquidity
We view Temasek's liquidity as exceptional as we expect the company's sources of funds to cover its uses by about 3x
over the next 24 months to end-Mar 2021. Even in a hypothetical scenario of unexpected external shocks, which could
restrict the company's inflow of dividends or proceeds from divestments, Temasek's sources of liquidity would
comfortably cover its needs.
We note that the company has no covenants on its debt instruments, and long-dated debt maturities. The weighted
average outstanding maturity of debt was about 10 years as of March 31, 2019. In addition, Temasek has well
established and solid relationships with banks, and a high standing in credit markets.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Cash and cash equivalents and short-term
investments of S$44.2 billion, exceeding total debt of
S$15.1 billion by almost three times.

• Short-term debt maturities of S$4.3 billion coming
due in the subsequent 12 months to March 31, 2020.

• Forecast annual interest income and income from
investments of about S$500 million-S$800 million.
• Our forecast of dividends to be received from
portfolio companies of close to S$7.2 billion-S$7.4
billion per annum.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

• Operating costs and tax expenses.
• Interest expenses of up to S$500 million annually.
• Our expectation that acquisitions could exceed
disposals.
• Some net return to its shareholder.

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 7

Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited

Government Influence
Our credit assessment on Temasek factors in our view of an extremely high likelihood of extraordinary support from
the government of Singapore (unsolicited rating AAA/Stable/A-1+) since:
• Temasek has a critical importance to the Singapore government due to the company's shareholding in some
sectors, which we believe are strategic for the country's economy.
• Temasek shows a very strong link with its sole owner, the Singapore government, which is very unlikely to dilute its
ownership. Under the Singapore Constitution, Temasek is subject to the country's constitutional safeguards where
Singapore's President has an obligation to protect the company's past reserves.
We assess Temasek's SACP as 'aaa', based on its strong assets, portfolio characteristics, above-average investment
capabilities, and minimal leverage. Therefore, the corporate credit rating is 'AAA' by its own merits. Accordingly, the
benefit from this extremely high likelihood of extraordinary government support would materialize if we lower the
SACP for Temasek.
In our view, the company benefits from its ownership by Singapore's Minister for Finance on an ongoing basis as well,
with a number of domestic, blue-chip companies in its portfolio, such as PSA International Pte. Ltd. and Singapore
Power Ltd. We also believe that the ongoing support from the government of Singapore gives an edge to Temasek
when it comes to accessing investment opportunities.
Likewise, we believe the Minister for Finance supports Temasek's conservative capital structure and investment
firepower through recurring dividend reinvestment.

Rating List
Ratings affirmed on the following issue rating:
Temasek Financial (I) Limited
Senior Unsecured AAA
Temasek Financial (II) Private Limited
Commercial Paper A-1+
Temasek Financial (IV) Limited
Senior Unsecured AAA

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating: AAA/Stable/A-1+

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 8

Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited

Business risk: Excellent
• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Investment position: Excellent
Financial risk: Minimal
• Cash flow/Leverage: Minimal
• Funding and capital structure: Neutral
Anchor: aaa
Modifiers
• Liquidity: Exceptional (no impact)
• Management and governance: Satisfactory (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)
Stand-alone credit profile: aaa
• Sovereign rating: AAA/Stable/A-1+
• Likelihood of government support: Extremely high (no impact)

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, July 1, 2019
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, April 1, 2019
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Reflecting Subordination Risk In Corporate Issue Ratings, March 28, 2018
• General Criteria: Methodology For Linking Long-Term And Short-Term Ratings, April 7, 2017
• General Criteria: Guarantee Criteria, Oct. 21, 2016
• Criteria | Corporates | Industrials: Methodology: Investment Holding Companies, Dec. 1, 2015
• General Criteria: Rating Government-Related Entities: Methodology And Assumptions, March 25, 2015
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate
Issuers, Dec. 16, 2014
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 9

Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited

• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities, Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Stand-Alone Credit Profiles: One Component Of A Rating, Oct. 1, 2010
Ratings Detail (As Of September 23, 2019)*
Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited
Issuer Credit Rating

AAA/Stable/A-1+

Issuer Credit Ratings History
16-Feb-2011

AAA/Stable/A-1+

12-Oct-2004

AAA/Stable/--

Related Entities
Singapore
Issuer Credit Rating

AAA/Stable/A-1+

Transfer & Convertibility Assessment

AAA

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 10

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 11

