Eclipse Midco Inc.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Kevin Cheng, New York + 1 (212) 438 1151; kevin.cheng@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
James W Thomas, New York + (212) 438-0181; james.w.thomas@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 17, 2019 1

Eclipse Midco Inc.
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b-

b-

b-

B-/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key strengths

Key risks

Diverse customer base with over 16,000 customers and minimal
product concentration.

High pro forma leverage of over 6.5x, which we expect will remain
elevated over the next 12 months.

Improving subscription revenue mix and recurring revenue share
(approximately 74%).

Narrow customer base concentrated in the smaller end of the small and
midsize business (SMB) space.

Strong cash flow conversion from minimal capital expenditure and
working capital requirements.

Limited operating scale, especially when compared with some of its
peers.

Outlook: Stable

The stable outlook on ECi Software Solutions reflects our expectation for modest revenue growth supported by
acquisitions, which will be partially offset by declining perpetual license sales and SMB customer attrition. We
anticipate that the company will have limited capacity to pay down debt over the next year due to substantial
interest expense and expect its pro forma adjusted debt to EBITDA to remain above 6x through 2021.

Downside scenario
We could lower our rating on ECi Software Solutions if challenges arise due to integration missteps, cost-saving
execution issues, and/or accelerated customer attrition. Potential catalysts for a downgrade include sustained
negative free cash flow, weakened liquidity, or narrow covenant headroom, particularly if we believe the firm's
capital structure has become unsustainable.

Upside scenario
Although unlikely over the next 12 months, we could consider raising our rating on ECi Software Solutions if it
generates sufficient free cash flow to repay a significant level of its outstanding debt, increases its recurring
revenue base without impairing its operating metrics, and maintains adjusted debt to EBITDA of less than 6.5x.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 17, 2019 2

Eclipse Midco Inc.

Our Base-Case Scenario
Assumptions

Key Metrics

• Global real GDP growth of 3.3% in 2019 and 3.6% in
2020;

2018A
Revenue (mil. $)

• U.S. real GDP growth of 2.5% in 2019 and 1.8% in
2020;
• Global information technology (IT) spending
increases by the low- to mid-single digit percent
area in 2019;

2019E

2020E

204 220-240 280-300

Adjusted EBITDA margin (%)

25

30-32

34-36

Adjusted debt to EBITDA (x)

10.7

Over 9

Over 6

A--Actual. E--Estimate.

• Revenue increases by the low-double digit percent
area in fiscal year 2020 as ECi increases its
subscription revenue through acquisitions;
• S&P-adjusted EBITDA margins improve to the 30%
area in 2020;
• Cash flow from operations of approximately $20
million in fiscal year 2019;
• Capital expenditure (capex) of about $5 million
annually; and
• Debt amortization of approximately $5 million
annually.
Based on these assumptions, we arrive at the following
credit measures over the coming year:
• S&P Global Ratings pro forma adjusted leverage of
more than 6.5x for 2020 and above 6.0x for 2021;
and
• EBITDA interest coverage of about 1.5x over the
next 18 months.

Company Description
ECi Software specializes in enterprise resource planning (ERP) software solutions for a number of related customer
end-market verticals, primarily in the distribution, construction, field service, and manufacturing sectors. In August
2017, ECi Software was acquired by Apax partners in a sponsor-to-sponsor sale (Carlyle Group) and was then merged
with a division (Exact software) of the Apax portfolio, which subsequently created the ECi Software Solutions/ Eclipse
Midco Inc. entity.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 17, 2019 3

Eclipse Midco Inc.

Business Risk: Weak
Our assessment of ECi Software Solutions' business risk profile reflects the borrower's smaller scale, narrow revenue
base, and our expectation that it will successfully complete the integration of Trivest and PacSoft to increase its
subscription revenue. The company has a niche focus in the fragmented ERP software market of the SMB segment in
the manufacturing, construction, and e-commerce distribution industry verticals. In addition, the vast majority of ECi's
customers employ less than 500 staff members and generate less than $100 million of annual revenue, which entails
inherent macro risk. However, the company has consistently improved its proportion of recurring revenue, which
accounts for approximately 74% of its total revenue.
Historically, ECi has excelled at upselling additional business applications and functionalities to its existing customer
base. These business applications include payment processing, customer relationship management (CRM), mobile
capabilities, etc. and represent significant white space opportunities for the company to achieve incremental revenue
gains. While upselling layered functionality increases its penetration within its customer base and augments the
stickiness of its customer relationships, the limited organic growth in its core software sales constrains it from
effectively gaining scale.
Therefore, we anticipate the growth in ECi's acquired businesses will be minimal. While the integration of Trivest and
PacSoft will provide opportunities to save costs through the realization of synergies due to their overlap with the
company's industry verticals and product portfolio capabilities, the merger does not materially alter our assessment of
ECi's business risk profile.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
Our assessment of ECi's financial risk profile primarily reflects its significant pro forma adjusted debt to EBITDA of
approximately 6.6x. We expect the company's leverage to decline over the next few quarters as its completes the
integration of Trivest and PacSoft. However, we anticipate the realization of additional cost synergies and
management's adoption of the ASC 606 revenue standard will improve its EBITDA margins to the low- to mid-30%
area by the end of fiscal year 2020. We project that ECi will generate approximately $20 million of annual cash flow
from operations in 2019, which we expect will increase to approximately $40 million in 2020 with a full year of
contributions from the Trivest/PacSoft acquisitions.
Management expects pro forma revenue of $285 million for 2019 and reported EBITDA of $113 million. In addition,
we expect limited deleveraging over the next 12 months as the company integrates Trivest and PacSoft and focuses on
improving its operational efficiencies to increase profitability. Over the longer term, we expect modest deleveraging
from EBITDA margin expansion and anticipate that any debt reduction will be limited to required annual amortization
payments due to the company's track record of using its free cash flow to fund acquisitions.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 17, 2019 4

Eclipse Midco Inc.

Liquidity: Adequate
In our view ECi has adequate liquidity. We expect its liquidity sources to be more than 2x its uses over the next 12
months and anticipate that its net sources will remain positive over the near term even if its EBITDA declines by 50%.
While the company meets our quantitative criteria for an exceptional liquidity position, we constrain our assessment
due to qualitative factors.
Specifically, we view ECi's standing in the credit markets as insufficient to qualify for a stronger liquidity score and
believe that the firm would be unable to absorb a high-impact, low-probability event without refinancing.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Cash and liquid investments of about $26 million as
of June 30, 2019;

• Approximately $5 million of annual amortization
payments on the first-lien term loan; and

• Full availability under its $60 million revolving credit
facility; and

• Capex of about $8 million in fiscal year 2020.

• Approximately $40 million of cash flow from
operations in fiscal year 2020.

Covenant Analysis
The first-lien credit facility will be governed by a 7.25x first-lien gross debt to EBITDA financial covenant that springs
when the company draws upon at least 35% of the facility's commitment. We expect the company to sustain sufficient
headroom under this covenant to maintain adequate liquidity.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• We have a '2' recovery rating on ECi's first-lien secured debt and a '6' recovery rating on its second-lien secured
debt.
• Our simulated default scenario contemplates a default occurring in 2021 due to a failure to successfully integrate
recent acquisitions and stem revenue and profit declines and intensifying customer attrition that leads to losses in its
core ERP business and attached business applications.
• We value the company on a going-concern basis using a 6.0x multiple of our projected emergence-level EBITDA.
This multiple reflects the company's small operational scale and growth prospects relative to that of its peers.

Simulated default assumptions
• Simulated year of default: 2021
• Emergence EBITDA: Approximately $74 million

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 17, 2019 5

Eclipse Midco Inc.

• Multiple: 6.0x
• Jurisdiction: U.S.

Simplified waterfall
• Gross recovery value: About $449 million
• Net recovery value for waterfall after admin. expenses: About $423 million
• Obligor/nonobligor valuation split: 90%/10%
• First-lien secured debt claims: About $583 million
• Collateral value available to first-lien secured creditors: $408 million
• --Recovery range: 70%-90% (rounded estimate: 70%)
• Second-lien secured debt claims: About $177 million
• --Recovery range: 0%-10% (rounded estimate: 0%)
Note: Estimated claim amounts include approximately six months of accrued but unpaid interest that we assume
would be outstanding at default. Amounts have been rounded.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B-/Stable/--

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: Low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: bModifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: FS-6 (no additional impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 17, 2019 6

Eclipse Midco Inc.

Stand-alone credit profile : b-

• Group credit profile: b-

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Methodology For Linking Long-Term And Short-Term Ratings, April 7, 2017
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Technology Software And Services Industry, Nov. 19,
2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Business Risk Profile
Excellent
Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

Ratings Detail (As Of September 17, 2019)*
Eclipse Midco, Inc.
Issuer Credit Rating

B-/Stable/--

Issuer Credit Ratings History
01-Oct-2018

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

B-/Stable/--

SEPTEMBER 17, 2019 7

Eclipse Midco Inc.

Ratings Detail (As Of September 17, 2019)*(cont.)
Related Entities
ECi Macola/MAX, LLC
Senior Secured

B

Senior Secured

CCC

Exact Holding North America Inc.
Issuer Credit Rating

B-/Stable/--

Senior Secured

B

Senior Secured

CCC

Exact Merger Sub LLC
Senior Secured

B

Senior Secured

CCC

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 17, 2019 8

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 17, 2019 9

