Appvion Operations Inc.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Maurice S Austin, New York (1) 212-438-2077; maurice.austin@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
William R Mack, CFA, Centennial + 1 (303) 721 4821; william.mack@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 1

Appvion Operations Inc.
Business Risk: VULNERABLE

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

b

Financial Risk: AGGRESSIVE
Highly leveraged

b

b

B/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key strengths

Key risks

Low level of absolute debt with no near-term maturities.

Carbonless paper market is in secular decline.

Leading share of North American thermal papers market.

Volatile input costs can affect profitability.

Free cash flow generation allows some financial flexibility.

Customer concentration.
Below-average profitability, relative to rated peers.

The carbonless paper segment is in secular decline and represents a smaller allocation of total sales. The company
believes the North American carbonless paper market declined by approximately 3% to 5% annually since 2015. We
assume the decline will continue at historical rates over the next several years. In addition to the decline in the North
American market, the company believes the global market is also in decline, with demand declining at approximately
2% to 5% per year. With the carbonless paper market in secular decline, the segment as a percentage of total sales
declined to 35% of total sales in 2018 from 41% in 2016. We expect this trend to continue, reaching about 30% in
2019.
We believe there is some customer concentration that could negatively affect operations. Sales to the company's largest
customer accounted for about 12% of net sales in 2018. The five largest customers in the carbonless paper segment
accounted for about 38% of 2018 carbonless paper net sales. The five largest customers in the thermal paper segment
accounted for about 57% of 2018 thermal paper net sales. The negative impact of customer concentration was in the
fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, when the loss of a major customer in the thermal paper segment resulted in a 17% decline
in shipment volumes. The negative impact was compounded by other customers reducing their inventory levels. We
expect this to continue to affect volumes in 2019, with a decline of about 5% in thermal paper volumes.
Appvion has about $10 million in annual financial obligations with no near-term maturities. The company's
post-emergence capital structure consists of a $105 million term loan due 2026, with $85 million currently outstanding,
and an $80 million revolver expiring in 2023. This is a capital structure we believe is more manageable than the
pre-bankruptcy capital structure consisting of about $550 million of adjusted debt. We expect fixed charges to be about
$10 million annually, with the nearest debt maturity amount of about $85 million due in 2026.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 2

Appvion Operations Inc.

Outlook: Stable

The stable outlook reflects leverage remaining in the 3x-3.5x area over the next year due to slightly lower debt
levels and steady EBITDA levels in the $40 million area, as cost-cutting initiatives offset lower sales.

Downside scenario
We could lower the rating over the next 12 months if gross margins declined in excess of 100 basis points (bps),
resulting in debt to EBITDA exceeding 4x and approaching 5x, or if EBITDA interest coverage were sustained
below 3x. This margin degradation could occur if the cost initiatives the company is implementing failed to offset
unexpectedly higher input costs or if commodity input costs spiked for a sustained period. We could also
downgrade the company if its owners altered the current financial policy, resulting in increased debt leverage to
finance shareholder returns or acquisitions.

Upside scenario
We believe an upgrade is unlikely within the next 12 months given that 35% of the company's business is in secular
decline. However, if debt to EBITDA falls and is sustained below 2x and EBITDA interest coverage approaches
10x, we could raise the rating. This could occur if paper demand and pricing materially outperform our forecast
such that EBITDA exceeds our expectations by at least 65%. We believe such a scenario could indicate sustainably
better profitability from improved market fundamentals.

Our Base-Case Scenario
Assumptions

Key Metrics

• U.S. Real GDP expected to grow at 2.5% in 2019 &
1.8% in 2020.

2018e 2019e 2020f
EBITDA (Mil. $)

• Consumer spending of 2.5% and 2% in 2019 and
2020 respectively.
• Core Consumer Price Index of 2.1% and 2.2% in
2019 and 2020, respectively.

37.1

35-40

37-42

Debt to EBITDA (x)

3.9

3.3

3.3

Interest coverage (x)

1.5

4.3

4.6

a--Actual. e--Estimate. f--Forecast.

• No dividends or acquisitions.

Base-case projections
We expect full year 2019 total revenues to fall by almost 13% to about $640 million. We expect full year 2019
shipments of carbonless paper to fall by 25% because the company is facing lower demand for carbonless paper, which
is in secular decline due to greater use of competing technologies. We expect shipments of thermal paper to decline
about 5% due to the loss of a major customer in the fourth quarter of 2018 and customers reducing their inventory. In
addition, we expect a 0.5% decline in prices for both segments as a result of pricing pressure expectations.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 3

Appvion Operations Inc.

We assume adjusted gross margin will improve by 180 bps year over year. We believe improved cost control
efficiencies and lower average costs will lead to stronger margins because we expect gross margins at the end of the
year to be in the 13% area, up from 11% in 2018.
We expect the company to generate positive free operating cash flow this year. Last year, Appvion generated negative
free cash flow in the $20 million area. This year, we expect the company to generate about $16 million in free
operating cash flow primarily due to lower interest expense from its new capital structure that should enable the
company to generate net income this year and next.

Company Description
Appvion is a manufacturer of high value-added coated and specialty paper products, including carbonless, thermal,
and security papers. Carbonless papers are used as multipart forms, such as invoices and purchase orders; thermal
papers include point-of-sale products for retail receipts and coupons and security papers use features that resist
forgery, tampering, and counterfeiting, including checks, visas, automobile titles, and birth certificates.

Business Risk: Vulnerable
Our assessment of Appvion's business risk reflects its participation in the mature carbonless paper market, which is
facing structural decline in demand; customer concentration; partial vertical integration; and below-average
profitability relative to our rated paper and forest product companies.
The carbonless paper market in North America and worldwide is in decline due to continued wholesale migration to
digital laser, inkjet, and thermal printers and electronic communications. Carbonless papers are infused with dye and
transfer writing onto copies. The company believes the North American carbonless paper market has declined by
approximately 3% to 5% annually since 2015. We assume the decline will continue at historical rates over the next
several years, taking into account that the vast majority of the migration has already taken place. Still, Appvion
continues to have a leading market share in small, niche markets facing technological displacement. The company is
the global leader with the broadest product line in its carbonless paper segment. It has a 45%-55% share of the North
American market and about a 15% share of the global market. Nonetheless, with the segment in secular decline, the
company has limited pricing power and declining volumes. Appvion, however, also has a leading position in the more
favorable thermal paper market, which we believe is growing at an average of about 1% per year. Appvion represents
over 50% of the North American market for thermal papers, but less than 10% of the global market.
Appvion's business is partially vertically integrated. As such, it is exposed to price fluctuations in the base stock paper,
chemicals, and pulp that are its raw materials. Base stock and chemicals are its biggest cost component. The company
relies on external sources for most of its base stock as it produces about 45% of its base stock needs in-house and is
vulnerable to fiber and chemical cost increases that it may not be able to pass on to its customers. However, the
company has recently been successful in obtaining price increases to partially offset raw material inflation and improve
profitability in the first half of the year. Still, we assess Appvion's profitability, based on its EBITDA margin, as below
average, because its five-year average for EBITDA margins of about 6.5% is below the 11% threshold we consider
average for our rated paper and forest product companies.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 4

Appvion Operations Inc.

Financial Risk: Aggressive
Our assessment of Appvion's financial risk reflects our expectations for an improvement in free operating cash flows
and the financial flexibility that it brings. Before its bankruptcy, the company incurred interest expense in the $45
million area annually based on its capital structure. This contributed to the company being unable to generate any
positive free cash flows. The company's post-emergence capital structure consists of a $105 million term loan and an
$80 million revolver that had about $85 million and about $15 million outstanding, respectively, as of June 2019. We
now expect interest expense to be less than $10 million annually and the company to be free cash flow positive
because it has modest capital spending requirements.
We do expect EBITDA to improve slightly this year to about $40 million. However, we expect 2020 EBITDA to remain
similar to our expectation for this year. Consequently, debt to EBITDA should remain in the 3.5x area this year and
next and EBITDA interest coverage should be about 4.5x during the same period.

Liquidity: Adequate
In our opinion, Appvion maintains adequate liquidity, based on our expectation that sources of liquidity will exceed
uses by 2.7x or more over the next year and that liquidity sources less uses would remain positive even if forecast
EBITDA declines by 15%. We believe that Appvion's liquidity measures are offset by qualitative factors like its ability
to withstand severe or substantially adverse market circumstances while preserving sufficient liquidity.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Cash and liquid investments of about $2 million as of
June 2019.

• Capital expenditures of $10 million annually.

• About $58 million of availability under its $80
million asset-based lending (ABL) expiring in 2023,
after taking effect of $3.4 million letters of credit
issued.

• Debt amortization of $1.05 million annually.
• Working capital outflows of $500,000 over next 12
months.

• Funds from operations of about $25 million over the
next 12 months.

Debt maturities
The company's $105 million senior secured first-lien term loan due June 13, 2026, has $85.8 million is outstanding as
of June 2019.

Covenant Analysis

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 5

Appvion Operations Inc.

Compliance expectations
Over the next year, we do not expect the covenants to spring into effect.

Requirements
The ABL has a springing fixed-charge coverage ratio covenant of 1x, tested monthly, if excess availability is less than
the greater of (1) the lesser of (a) 10% of the borrowing base and (b) 10% of the facility and (2) $6.5 million.
The term loan has no financial maintenance covenants.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• The company's $105 million senior secured first-lien term loan due 2026 is rated 'B+'. The recovery rating is '2',
indicating our expectation for substantial (70%-90%; rounded estimate: 75%) recovery for lenders in the event of
default.
• In addition to the term loan, Appvion has an $80 million revolving credit facility (unrated) expiring in 2023.
• Our simulated default scenario assumes a payment default in 2022, primarily reflecting a combination of a severe
decline in volume and prices, higher raw material costs, and greater competition in value-added coated and
specialty paper products.
• We applied an assumed distressed emergence EBITDA of $28 million against a 5x multiple to estimate gross
recovery value of about $140 million.
• The 5x multiple used in determining the default scenario and recovery value in a default scenario for Appvion is
consistent and in line with that of the multiple we use across all rated forest and paper product peers.
• We assume 85% of the $80 million revolving credit facility is drawn at the time of default.

Simulated default assumptions
• Year of default: 2022
• EBITDA at emergence: $28 million
• Implied enterprise value multiple: 5x

Simplified waterfall
• Gross enterprise value at default: $140 million
• Administrative costs: 5%
• Net enterprise value: $133 million
• Priority claims: $50 million
• Net value available to creditors: $83 million
-----------------------------------------------------• First-lien debt: $107 million

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 6

Appvion Operations Inc.

• --Recovery expectation: 70%-90%: 75%
Note: All debt amounts include six months of prepetition interest accrued.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B/Stable/--

Business risk: Vulnerable

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Moderately high
• Competitive position: Vulnerable
Financial risk: Aggressive

• Cash flow/Leverage: Aggressive
Anchor: b
Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: Neutral (no impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)

Related Criteria
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, April 1, 2019
• Guidance | Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, April 1, 2019
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate
Issuers, Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria | Corporates | Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Forest And Paper Products Industry, Feb. 12, 2014
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 7

Appvion Operations Inc.

• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Business Risk Profile

Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly leveraged

Excellent

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Ratings Detail (As Of September 23, 2019)*
Appvion Operations Inc.
Issuer Credit Rating

B/Stable/--

Senior Secured

B+

Issuer Credit Ratings History
27-Aug-2018

B/Stable/--

02-Oct-2017

D/--/--

30-Aug-2017

CCC/Watch Dev/--

24-Aug-2016

B-/Stable/--

02-Dec-2014

B/Negative/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 8

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 9

