SuperMoose Newco Inc.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Neilson H Lin, New York (1) 212-438-1233; neilson.lin@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Christian Frank, San Francisco + 1 (415) 371 5069; christian.frank@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 19, 2019 1

SuperMoose Newco Inc.
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b-

b-

b-

B-/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key Strengths

Key Risks

Market leader in the public safety and administrative software
market.

Post-merger integration issues that disrupt business operations and prolong
restructuring costs.

High recurring revenue and retention rates.

Narrow product focus contributing to smaller scale than other technology
software companies.

Low customer concentration.

Intensely fragmented and competitive public sector market.
High adjusted leverage of mid-11x projected by the end of 2019.

2019 results and credit metrics are below expectations due to integration disruption, but recurring revenue and cost
savings should support improvement in 2020. Performance for SuperMoose Newco Inc. (dba CentralSquare
Technologies) has fallen below expectations due to business disruption from integration activities following its
formation from the merger of three predecessor companies (Superion, Aptean, and TriTech) in Aug. 2018. However,
we believe that high recurring revenue in the low-70% area will support stable revenue performance in 2020 and that
EBITDA will increase with cost reductions. We expect leverage in the mid-11x area at the end of 2019, above our prior
estimate in the low-8x area, and that cash flow will be negative due to one-time integration costs. We expect leverage
to fall to the high-8x area in 2020 with adequate cash flow to support debt service.
Long replacement cycle of CentralSquare's public market software solutions and growth in cloud revenue will continue
to drive good recurring revenue. CentralSquare Technologies focuses on public safety and public administrative
software solutions. The long replacement cycle of these products, an average of 15 years, is due to the highly ingrained
nature of solutions and the high switching costs for end customers. CentralSquare's cloud revenue also increased to the
mid-teens percent area of total revenue, which we expect to drive recurring revenue growth.
We assume annual state and local government software spending to be in the low-single-digit percent area and that
CentralSquare will outperform that. We believe CentralSquare is one of the market leaders in both public safety and
public administrative solutions. CentralSquare continues to win new city contracts in its public safety and
administrative solutions post consolidation. As customers look to migrate off legacy solutions, CentralSquare should
use its technological expertise to provide newer solutions that drive future growth.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 19, 2019 2

SuperMoose Newco Inc.

Outlook: Stable

The stable outlook reflects our view that CentralSquare will increase EBITDA in 2020 by implementing cost
reductions and expanding its revenue base along with state and local government software investment spending.
This will allow the company to generate modest cash flow of $10 million-$30 million annually.

Downside scenario
We could lower the rating if we come to view the capital structure as unsustainable, which would occur if we think
CentralSquare is likely to sustain negative cash flow after required debt amortization. This would likely happen if
cost reductions disrupt the business into 2020, lower service and support quality, or slowing product innovation,
which could result in customer defections and declining new license sales. This could also occur if state and local
government customers reduce software investment spending because of an economic downturn that reduces tax
revenue.

Upside scenario
Although unlikely over the next year, we could raise the rating if CentralSquare sustains leverage at or below the
mid-7x area and free operating cash flow (FOCF) to debt above 5%. It would need to implement planned cost
reductions and sustain them over several quarters without disrupting the business and realizing mid-single-digit
percent revenue growth.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 19, 2019 3

SuperMoose Newco Inc.

Our Base-Case Scenario
Assumptions

Key Metrics

• Real U.S. GDP growth of 2.5% in 2019 and 1.8% in
2020.

2018A
Debt to EBITDA (x)

• Annual software industry revenue growth in the
mid-single-digit percent area.
• Annual state and local government software
spending growth in the low-single-digit percent area.

Unadjusted FOCF (Mil. $)

2019E

2020E

low-11 11.3-11.6 8.9-9.1
N.M.

(35)-(45)

10-30

A--Actual. E--Estimate. FOCF--Free operating cash
flow. N.M.--Not meaningful.

• Revenue growth in the low- to mid-single-digit
percentages in 2019, supported by acquisitions but
below our expectations due to disruption caused by
its cost restructuring. Low-single–digit percent
revenue growth thereafter, in line with our
expectations for the state and local government
software industry due to cross-selling opportunities,
supported by high recurring revenue.
• A modest EBITDA margin decline in 2019 as
disruption from CentralSquare's cost restructuring
offset the savings. That increases to above 2018
levels in 2020 as recurring revenue helps stabilize
revenue growth and the company continues realizes
cost savings.
• Capitalized software development cost treated as an
operating expense. We do not add back change in
deferred revenue, but we will make adjustments for
purchase accounting deferred revenue write downs.
• Deferred revenue sources that offset working capital
uses.
• Annual capital expenditures (capex) and capitalized
software development totaling 4% of revenues in
2019.
• No dividends.
• No assumptions about acquisitions in our forecast
because of uncertainty around timing and sizing.

Base-case projections
We expect operating performance to stabilize in 2020 and that leverage will fall to the high-8x area. We think
CentralSquare's high recurring revenue in the mid-60% area will support stable revenue performance in 2020 and that
it will expand EBITDA margins through cost reductions. As a result, we expect leverage to fall to the high-8x area.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 19, 2019 4

SuperMoose Newco Inc.

Cash flow will turn positive in 2020. We expect unadjusted FOCF of negative $35 million-$45 million in 2019, mainly
as a result of leveraged buyout-related transaction costs. As those roll off and CentralSquare realizes the benefit from
cost reductions, we expect FOCF to be $10 million-$30 million in 2020.

Company Description
CentralSquare Technologies provides public safety and public administration software solutions to governments,
municipalities, public safety agencies, and courts and justice system agencies. Its solutions help customers with
computer-aided dispatch, records and jail management, finance, and human capital management. CentralSquare is
owned by financial sponsors Bain Capital and Vista Equity Partners. Its financials are private.

Business Risk: Weak
Our view reflects CentralSquare's limited operating scale among other technology software companies. CentralSquare
also has a narrow focus on public sector solutions, which limits its product portfolio diversity. We also believe the
public sector market is highly fragmented and intensely competitive. Not only do larger and better capitalized
competitors, such as Motorola and Northrop Grumman, compete with CentralSquare in the overall public solutions
market, there are also niche competitors such as Hexagon and Tyler Technologies.
However, we believe CentralSquare has market-leading capabilities that offset some of those risks. Its solutions drive
an average 15-year customer relationship. We also view favorably the company's mid-60% area recurring revenue,
over 100% net revenue retention, and very low customer concentration as additional factors that offset business risk.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
Our assessment reflects expected leverage in the mid-11x area as of year-end 2019. We expect leverage to improve to
the high-8x area in 2020 as cost savings are achieved. However, we note that CentralSquare's financial sponsor
ownership will likely limit sustained deleveraging in the long term as we expect the sponsors to use balance sheet
capacity for debt-financed acquisitions or shareholder returns.
CentralSquare has annual capex and capitalized software development costs, which we consider an operating expense
totaling around 4% of revenue. While we note that unadjusted FOCF is expected to be negative in fiscal 2019, most of
that is one-time in nature and will be gone by 2020. We expect modest positive unadjusted FOCF in 2020.
CentralSquare will also have access to its $125 million revolving credit facility, providing liquidity in the current time of
transition.

Liquidity: Adequate
We view CentralSquare's liquidity as adequate. We believe coverage of uses will be above 4x over the next 12 months,
and net sources will be positive even with a 15% decline in EBITDA. Although our quantitative assessment suggests a
stronger score, liquidity is limited to adequate since the company would likely need to refinance to absorb a

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 19, 2019 5

SuperMoose Newco Inc.

high-impact, low-probability event. It has adequate but not high standing in the credit markets given the
speculative-grade spreads on its debt.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Approximately $29 million cash and short-term
investments as of March 31, 2019.

• Annual capex of approximately $18 million in 2019
and $10 million in 2020.

• $80 million available under its revolving credit
facility expiring in 2023 (expected draw of $45
million in the second quarter of 2019).

• Mandatory debt amortization of approximately $10
million in 2019.

• Negative FOCF of approximately the low-$20
million area in fiscal 2019, from one-time platform
integration and restructuring costs. We expect that
to be positive by more than $30 million in 2020.

Debt maturities
• First-lien term loan with a balance of more than $950 million; required annual amortization of approximately $10
million, with the balance due in 2026.
• Second-lien term loan with a balance of $380 million due in 2027.

Covenant Analysis
Compliance expectations

Requirements

We expect CentralSquare to maintain adequate
cushion under the first-lien leverage ratio in its
revolving credit facility. The term loans are not subject
to financial covenants.

CentralSquare has to maintain a maximum first-lien
leverage ratio of 8.2x, when greater than 40% of the
revolver is utilized. While we expect the revolver to be
drawn in second quarter of 2019, CentralSquare will
have a 35% EBITDA cushion on the 8.2x leverage ratio
and draw the revolver below the 40% cutoff.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 19, 2019 6

SuperMoose Newco Inc.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors

• Our issue-level rating on the company's first-lien debt is 'B' with a '2' recovery rating. Our issue-level rating on its
second-lien term loan is 'CCC' with a '6' recovery rating.
• Our simulated default scenario assumes a payment default in 2021 because of integration missteps that cause
poor sales execution and underinvestment in products, increasing customer attrition, and significantly
decreasing new license sales. These factors would lead to lower revenue, cash flow, and liquidity.

Simulated default assumptions

Simplified waterfall

• Year of default: 2021

• Net enterprise value (after 5% administrative costs):
$797 million

• EBITDA at emergence: $129 million
• EBITDA multiple: 6.5x
• Revolving credit facility: 85% drawn at default

• Valuation split (obligors/nonobligors): 85%/15%
• Value available to secured creditors: $773 million
• Secured first-lien debt: $1.07 billion
• --Recovery expectations: 70%-90% (rounded
estimate: 70%)
• Value available to unsecured creditors: $24 million
• Secured second-lien debt: $399 million
• --Recovery expectations: 0%-10% (rounded
estimate: 5%)
All debt amounts include six months of prepetition
interest.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B-/Stable/--

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 19, 2019 7

SuperMoose Newco Inc.

• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: bModifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral
• Capital structure: Positive
• Financial policy: FS-6 (no additional impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate
• Management and governance: Fair
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral
Stand-alone credit profile : bIssuer Credit Rating: B-/Stable/-Business risk: Weak
• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Highly leveraged
• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: bModifiers
• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Financial policy: FS-6 (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 19, 2019 8

SuperMoose Newco Inc.

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Methodology For Linking Long-Term And Short-Term Ratings, April 7, 2017
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Technology Software And Services Industry, Nov. 19,
2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Business Risk Profile
Excellent

Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

Ratings Detail (As Of August 19, 2019)*
SuperMoose Newco, Inc.
Issuer Credit Rating

B-/Stable/--

Issuer Credit Ratings History
31-Jul-2018

B-/Stable/--

Related Entities
CentralSquare Technologies LLC
Senior Secured

B

Senior Secured

CCC

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 19, 2019 9

SuperMoose Newco Inc.

Ratings Detail (As Of August 19, 2019)*(cont.)
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 19, 2019 10

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 19, 2019 11

