Inter Pipeline Ltd.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Luqman Ali, CFA, Toronto (1) 416-507-2589; luqman.ali@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Stephen R Goltz, Toronto + 1 (416) 507 2592; stephen.goltz@spglobal.com
Research Assistant:
Umair Khan, Toronto

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Issue Ratings - Subordination Risk Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 1

Inter Pipeline Ltd.
Business Risk: STRONG

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

bbb

bbb

bbb

BBB+/Negative/--

Financial Risk: SIGNIFICANT
Highly leveraged

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Outlook
Key strengths

Key risks

High degree of contracted and fee-for-service cash flow underpinned by
cost-of-service and fee-based contracts that S&P Global Ratings expects will
generate 75%-80% of cash flows in the two-year forecast period

Commodity exposure through natural gas liquids(NGL)
fractionation facilities at Cochrane, Empress, and the
Redwater Olefinic Fractionator

Highly diverse customer base and creditworthy counterparties, with more than
80% of revenues forecast to come from investment-grade counterparties

Limited cushion in the credit metrics to compensate for the
incremental construction and execution risk related to the
Heartland Petrochemical Complex (HPC)
Construction and execution risk over our outlook period
during the buildout of the HPC

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 2

Inter Pipeline Ltd.

Outlook

The negative outlook reflects S&P Global Ratings' view of the HPC's construction and execution risk given the long
construction period, large size, and complexity. While we believe the project could be delivered on time and on
budget, it entails a very long building period, and Inter Pipeline Ltd. (IPL) has limited experience in construction
and project management outside of its core midstream and pipeline businesses. Furthermore, the outlook reflects
the expected increased commodity price exposure to 25%-30% of total cash flows once the facility is operational.

Downside scenario
We could lower the rating if funds from operations (FFO)-to-debt stays below 19% through the construction
period. This could result from prolonged delays and significant, debt-financed cost overruns; or if the expected
commodity price recovery fails to materialize. After construction, we would expect improved credit metrics to
compensate for the increased commodity exposure and we could lower the rating if FFO-to-debt stays below 23%
beyond 2021, given our projected contract profile for the project.

Upside scenario
During our two-year outlook period, which runs through a heavy spending period for the project, we would
consider revising the outlook to stable if the project is progressing on budget and on time; and the second phase of
contracting significantly increases the proportion of take-or-pay contracting, further reducing commodity price risk.
FFO-to-debt would need to improve comfortably over 23% to offset the construction and execution risk during
construction and compensate for the increased commodity exposure once the project is operational before we
would consider a positive rating action.

Our Base-Case Scenario
Assumptions

Key Metrics

• West Texas Intermediate crude price of US$55 in
2019, 2020, and 2021

2019E 2020F 2021F
FFO-to-debt (%)

• Henry Hub natural gas prices of US$2.25 for 2019,
US$2.50 for 2020, and US$2.75 for 2021
• HPC construction costs of about C$3.5 billion, with
a projected in-service date of late 2021
• Capital commitments over the next four years
financed with a C$1.5 billion credit facility, hybrid
debt securities, undistributed cash flow from
operations, and proceeds from a dividend
reinvestment program (DRIP) and premium DRIP
(PDRIP)

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

19.0

20.1

21.1

Debt-to-EBITDA (x)

4.5

4.1

4.0

FFO cash interest coverage (x)

6.9

6.1

6.3

*FFO – Funds from operations.
A--Actual. E--Estimate. F--Forecast.

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 3

Inter Pipeline Ltd.

Company Description
IPL is in the petroleum transportation, storage, and natural gas liquids processing businesses in Canada and Europe.
The company operates through four segments: oil sands transportation; conventional oil pipelines; NGL processing;
and bulk liquids storage.

Business Risk: Strong
We continue to assess IPL's business risk profile as strong, reflecting very stable cash flows from the oil sands
transportation, conventional oil pipelines, and bulk liquids storage segments. We expect cost-of-service and fee-based
contracts to generate 75%-80% of consolidated EBITDA over our forecast period. The company has overbuilt
pipelines, with capacity for incremental volumes.
The oil sands transportation business is highly contracted, mostly on a cost-of-service basis with investment-grade
counterparties. The average contract tenor is over 20 years. We expect this business to contribute about 50% of
consolidated EBITDA.
The conventional pipelines segment, although not as strong as the oil sands segment, benefits from limited bypass risk
given the tight integration with producers. We expect stable volumes and flexible tolling arrangements will maintain
margins. This business segment has a diverse customer base, with over 100 counterparties; about 75% are
investment-grade.
The bulk liquids storage segment has a moderate contract profile with average contract length of about two years and
fee-for-service-based cash flows. The segment also has a diverse customer base of over 100 customers; however, more
than half of those are speculative-grade.
Diversity within the four operating segments helps offset the volatility surrounding the NGL processing cash flows,
which are exposed to commodity prices for both liquids and natural gas prices. We expect contribution from the
commodity-sensitive cash flows to be 20%-25% over our two-year outlook period. The average contract life is about
five years with over 20 counterparties, most (90%) of which are investment-grade.
We continue to maintain our negative outlook, reflecting ongoing construction and execution risk related to the HPC
project. Although IPL continues to track the construction project on time and on budget--with an unchanged target of
a late-2021 start-up--cost overruns and delays could strain credit metrics during our outlook period. Construction
delays could persist even when the company starts realizing cash flows from the project.
We generally consider the petrochemicals industry to be riskier, relative to the contractually secured pipelines
business, because of the higher volatility in the income stream. Although the company is targeting to mitigate this
volatility by securing 70%-85% in take-or-pay contracts, the remaining 15%-30% will further increase IPL's overall
commodity exposure to 25%-30% from 20% currently. However, the higher the volumes contracted on a take-or-pay
tolling basis, the lower the commodity-sensitive cash flows.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 4

Inter Pipeline Ltd.

The HPC will be the first of its kind in Canada and will be designed to convert locally sourced, low-cost propane into
525,000 tonnes per year of polypropylene (PP), a high-value, easy-to-transport plastic used in a wide range of finished
products. The propane dehydrogenation (PDH) facility will convert approximately 22,000 barrels per day of propane
into 525,000 tonnes per year of polymer-grade propylene (PGP). Propane feedstock for the PDH plant might come
from IPL's Redwater Olefinic Fractionator or several third-party fractionators in the region. The integrated PP plant
will use propylene from the PDH plant to produce 525,000 tonnes of PP per year. IPL has contracted detailed
engineering with Fluor Corp. for the PDH facility, and Linde Engineering for the PP facility; they are best-in-class for
building these types of facilities, which helps offset construction and execution risk.
We have separated the ratings on subsidiary Inter Pipeline (Corridor) Inc. from those on IPL, reflecting Corridor's
limited-purpose operating status. We base this analysis on the following factors:
• Both the firm service agreement (FSA) and financing arrangements contain several provisions that effectively
restrict mergers, investments, transactions with affiliates, liens, debt, and dispositions.
• Corridor is not strategically or operationally linked to other IPL pipelines.
• Under the FSA, the company has committed to limit its activities to those pertaining to its existing pipeline.
• The FSA details the consequences of a default by Corridor, where under some circumstances the shippers can
purchase the pipeline and assume the associated financing.

Financial Risk: Significant
We continue to assess the financial risk profile as significant. We believe IPL has limited cushion in the credit metrics
to absorb any cost overruns during our outlook period. IPL is financing the HPC project through a combination of debt
and equity sources such that forward-looking FFO/debt and debt/EBITDA stay at 19%-21% and 4.0x–4.5x,
respectively. After construction, we would expect an improvement in credit metrics to offset the increased commodity
exposure to maintain the rating. IPL's NGL business benefited from strong financial performance owing to higher frac
spreads in 2018. However, these spreads have been weaker and have continued to trend lower into the third quarter of
2019 after peaking in mid-2018. We would expect NGL processing results to largely track the trajectory of frac
spreads, which could lead to some deterioration in credit metrics, if weakness in frac spreads persists. We generally
expect the company to use commodity-sensitive cash flows to pay down the revolver and use its contracted stream to
pay dividends.
We apply a one-notch positive adjustment to the 'bbb' anchor score based on our comparative rating analysis (CRA)
modifier. The modifier reflects contributions from stable, long-term contracted oil sands pipelines of 50%-55% of
EBITDA in 2018 and deconsolidated financial metrics that we expect will remain at the upper end of the significant
financial risk profile category during our two-year outlook period. While we believe we will maintain the positive CRA
during the construction period, as currently contracted, HPC could result in incremental commodity exposure,
bringing the total to about 25%-30% of cash flows. At these elevated levels, we do not think the positive CRA will
continue to be warranted.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 5

Inter Pipeline Ltd.

Liquidity: Adequate
We view IPL's liquidity as adequate. Sources less uses is positive, and sources over uses is greater than 1.2x over the
next 12 months. The assessment incorporates our belief that the company has sound relationships with its banks,
based on its ability to extend the revolving credit facility's maturity. We believe IPL has good access to capital markets
through high participation in DRIP and PDRIP programs. We also believe the company demonstrates generally
prudent risk management. It has a history of prefunding its bonds well before they mature and maintaining ample
undrawn committed credit capacity on its C$1.5 billion credit facility.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Cash and cash equivalents of C$44 million as of
June 30, 2019

• Growth and maintenance capital expenditures of
C$850 million-C$900 million over the next 12
months

• FFO of C$1 billion over the next 12 months
• Credit facility availability of approximately C$900
million as of June 30, 2019

• Dividends of C$700 million-C$750 million over the
next 12 months

Issue Ratings - Subordination Risk Analysis
Capital structure
IPL's capital structure consists of C$3.325 billion unsecured debt in the form of medium-term notes (MTNs); and
C$1.373 billion of nonrecourse debt issued by its subsidiary, Corridor.

Analytical conclusions
We rate the MTNs 'BBB+', the same as the long-term issuer credit rating. The debt at Corridor is nonrecourse to IPL,
so we believe there is no risk of subordination at the parent level. We rate this debt 'BBB+', the same as the issuer
credit rating on Corridor. We deconsolidate the nonrecourse debt from IPL in our analysis and we rate Corridor 'BBB+'
stand-alone.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
BBB+/Negative/--

Business risk: Strong

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Low
• Competitive position: Strong

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 6

Inter Pipeline Ltd.

Financial risk: Significant

• Cash flow/Leverage: Significant
Anchor: bbb
Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: Neutral (no impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Satisfactory (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Positive (+1 notch)

Related Criteria
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Reflecting Subordination Risk In Corporate Issue Ratings, March 28, 2018
• General Criteria: Methodology For Linking Long-Term And Short-Term Ratings, April 7, 2017
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate
Issuers, Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria | Corporates | Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Commodity Chemicals Industry, Dec. 31, 2013
• Criteria | Corporates | Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Midstream Energy Industry, Dec. 19, 2013
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, July 1, 2019
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, April 1, 2019
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
• Hybrid Capital: Methodology And Assumptions, July 1, 2019

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 7

Inter Pipeline Ltd.

Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Business Risk Profile

Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly leveraged

Excellent

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Ratings Detail (As Of September 23, 2019)*
Inter Pipeline Ltd.
Issuer Credit Rating

BBB+/Negative/--

Senior Unsecured

BBB+

Subordinated

BBB-

Issuer Credit Ratings History
20-Dec-2017

BBB+/Negative/--

17-Dec-2010

BBB+/Stable/--

24-Jul-2008

BBB/Positive/--

Related Entities
Inter Pipeline (Corridor) Inc.
Issuer Credit Rating

BBB+/Stable/--

Senior Unsecured

BBB+

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 8

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 9

