24-7 Intouch Inc
Primary Credit Analyst:
Alessio Di Francesco, CFA, Toronto (1) 416-507-2573; alessio.di.francesco@spglobal.com
Secondary Contacts:
Jarrett Bilous, Toronto (1) 416-507-2593; jarrett.bilous@spglobal.com
Nicole Jiang, Toronto + 1 (416) 507 3228; nicole.jiang@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 1

24-7 Intouch Inc
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b

b

b

B/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key strengths

Key risks

Higher-than-average growth rate given exposure to fast-growing
verticals

Small scale and modest operating breadth in the highly fragmented and
competitive consumer care outsourcing market

Above-average profitability that we assume will improve
modestly

High customer concentration increases the risk of lower earnings associated
with loss of key clients

Financial flexibility to fund growth initiatives beyond
maintenance capital expenditures

Private equity owners could adopt more aggressive financial policies leading to
higher leverage

We expect strong organic growth and above-industry profitability over the next couple of years.24-7 Intouch Inc.'s
revenue grew by about 25% in 2018, stemming from new client wins and continued growth of the company's existing
clients. S&P Global Ratings expects the company's growth momentum to continue over the next couple of years in the
low double-digit area while maintaining relatively flat adjusted EBITDA margins that we consider above average
compared with competitors in the consumer care outsourcing (CCO) market.
Credit measures are trending slightly better than previously expected, but remain appropriate for the current rating.We
forecast adjusted debt-to-EBITDA to be in the low-5x area through 2020, because of strong organic revenue growth,
stable profitability, and scheduled debt amortization. We believe the company's ownership precludes any meaningful
deleveraging below 5x based on our view that financial sponsors tend to follow aggressive financial strategies to
maximize shareholder returns.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 2

24-7 Intouch Inc

Outlook: Stable

The stable outlook reflects our expectation that 24-7 Intouch's earnings and cash flows should improve over the
next couple of years, with adjusted debt-to-EBITDA in the low-5x area and adjusted free operating cash flow
(FOCF)-to-debt approaching 5%. This incorporates our assumption of strong organic revenue growth on higher
volumes from new and existing clients, while maintaining relatively stable adjusted EBITDA margins.

Downside scenario
We could lower the ratings over the next 12 months if adjusted debt-to-EBITDA increases above 7x or if EBITDA
interest coverage falls below 2x. We believe this could occur from the loss of a key client or program,
weaker-than-expected demand for 24-7 Intouch's services, or competitive pressure that contributes to weaker
EBITDA and profitability. This could also occur if growth slows and the company makes an acquisition of more
than US$200 million funded entirely with debt.

Upside scenario
An upgrade is unlikely within the next 12 months given the company's limited scale as well as the high
fragmentation and low barriers to entry that characterize the consumer care outsourcing market. That said, we
could consider an upgrade within the next 12 months if leverage decreases to less than 5x and the company
demonstrates a commitment to a more conservative capital structure such that we believe there is a low risk of
leverage returning above 5x.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 3

24-7 Intouch Inc

Assumptions

• Strong organic revenue growth of about 15% in 2019
and 10% in 2020 thanks to rapid growth of existing
clients and the addition of new clients
• U.S. consumer spending to be up 2.5% in 2019 and
1.8% in 2020
• Adjusted EBITDA margins to remain relatively flat
from 2018 levels
• The average value of the Canadian dollar to be
relatively flat against the U.S. dollar

Key Metrics

Fiscal 2019E Fiscal 2020E
EBITDA (mil. C$)
Debt-to-EBITDA (x)
FOCF-to-debt (%)
EBITDA-to-interest (x)

70-75

75-80

5.0-5.5

5.0-5.5

0-2

3-5

2.0-2.5

About 2.5

Note: Figures include S&P Global Ratings' adjustments.
E--Estimate. FFO--Funds from operations. FOCF--Free
operating cash flow.

• Annual capital expenditures of US$25
million–US$30 million in 2019 and US$20
million–US$25 million thereafter; we assume less
than about US$5 million is for maintenance while
the rest is primarily to fund growth
• No shareholder distributions or acquisitions

Company Description
Based in Winnipeg, Man., 24-7 Intouch provides technology-enabled, omni-channel, outsourced customer care to
fast-growing verticals that include home sharing, vehicle sharing, digital media, e-commerce, and food couriers. The
company operates 15 service facilities with four in Canada, six in the U.S., one in Guatemala, two in Jamaica, and two
in the Philippines.

Business Risk: Weak
We view 24-7 Intouch as a small player in the global CCO market, which we consider highly fragmented and
competitive with low barriers to entry given the industry's low capital intensity. Compared to its global peers, 24-7
Intouch has relatively narrow service offering and language capabilities, higher customer concentration with its top
three clients representing approximately 40% of its revenue, and a shorter average age of customer relationships (we
estimate less than five years). In our opinion, this customer concentration increases the risk of lower earnings
associated with the loss of one or more key clients, but should moderate over time as the company continues to add
new clients.
The company differentiates itself from larger competitors by focusing on high quality, complex, and emotional
communications with its clients' customers. 24-7 Intouch has developed a workplace culture that resembles that of its
clients operating in emerging technologies, which fosters a strong brand association these clients value. In addition,
most of the company's clients operate in high growth verticals and focus more on brand and customer satisfaction.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 4

24-7 Intouch Inc

24-7 Intouch also demonstrated an ability to quickly ramp up capacity to meet client demands without meaningful
operating disruptions. In our view, these characteristics should contribute to solid organic revenue growth that exceeds
that of the company's peers owing to new client wins and continued growth of existing clients. We also expect the
company to maintain relatively flat adjusted EBITDA margins, which we consider to be at the higher end of 24-7
Intouch's peer group. We expect the company to accomplish this through adequate cost controls and disciplined
pricing.

Peer comparison
We expect 24-7 Intouch to generate less than US$500 million of annual revenue, making it significantly smaller than
most of its rated competitors, including Teleperformance SE, Convergys Corp., and Alorica Inc., each of which
generate well over US$2 billion of annual revenue. Our lower rating on 24-7 Intouch compared to Teleperformance
(BBB-/Stable/--) and Convergys (BB+/Stable/--) is primarily a function of our view of the company's relatively small
scale and narrow service offering, shorter average age of customer relationships, and higher debt leverage. When
compared to Alorica (B/Negative/--), we believe 24-7 Intouch has a stronger credit risk profile due in large part to the
company's stronger operating performance and growth prospects.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
Our financial risk profile on the company reflects our expectation for adjusted debt-to-EBITDA in the low 5x area and
adjusted funds from operations (FFO)-to-debt of about 10% through 2020. Our forecast incorporates our view that
strong organic growth prospects and steady profitability should contribute to positive FOCF to facilitate modest debt
reduction over the next couple of years. We believe the company has considerable financial flexibility to fund growth
initiatives beyond its maintenance capital expenditures that we estimate to be 1.0%-1.5% of revenue and a highly
variable cost structure that should provide some downside protection if growth slows. Furthermore, we expect
adjusted EBITDA interest coverage to be 2.0x-2.5x through 2020 as EBITDA growth offsets higher financing costs
associated with rising interest rates next year. All of the company's proposed debt is based on a variable interest rate.
The financial risk profile also incorporates 24-7 Intouch's private equity ownership. In our opinion, these owners tend
to follow aggressive financial strategies to maximize shareholder returns, which should contribute to leverage
remaining above 5x.

Liquidity: Adequate
The adequate liquidity assessment incorporates our expectation that the company will generate annual FFO of more
than US$30 million and have near full availability under its US$45 million revolving credit facility with sound banking
relationships. With relatively low capital expenditure requirements to operate the business and no meaningful debt
maturities until 2025, we believe 24-7 Intouch can cover its uses of cash in the next 12 months by about 1.6x and
remain above 1.0x in a stress scenario where our forecast EBITDA to declines by 15%-30%. Notwithstanding relatively
strong sources of cash against uses over the next couples of years, we consider a stronger liquidity assessment as
inappropriate at this time. This reflects our view that 24-7 Intouch lacks a high standing in credit markets and is
unlikely able to absorb high-impact, low-probability adversities, even factoring in capital-spending cuts.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 5

24-7 Intouch Inc

Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Minimal cash on hand

• Annual capital expenditures of US$25
million–US$30 million in 2019 and US$20
million–US$25 million thereafter; we assume less
than US$5 million is for maintenance while the rest
is primarily to fund growth

• Near full availability under its US$45 million
revolving credit facility due 2023
• Annual FFO of about US$30 million

• US$10 million of intrayear peak working capital
investments
• Nonseasonal working capital investment of less than
US$10 million
• Scheduled debt amortization of about US$2.5 million
annually under the company's US$245 million
first-lien term loan due 2025

Debt maturities

Covenant Analysis

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 6

24-7 Intouch Inc

Compliance expectations
We expect the company to have sufficient covenant headroom under its financial covenants even in a stress scenario
whereby EBITDA is 15%-30% lower or debt is 15%-25% higher than our forecast.

Requirements
24-7 Intouch must comply with certain restrictive covenants, under its first-lien revolving credit facilities, including a
springing maximum first-lien net leverage ratio of 6.5x, which steps down to 5.5x at Dec. 31, 2020.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• Our '3' recovery rating and 'B' issue-level rating on 24-7 Intouch's first-lien secured term loan and revolving credit
facility indicates our expectation for meaningful (50%-70%; rounded estimate: 65%) recovery in the event of default.
• Our '6' recovery rating and 'CCC+' issue-level rating on the company's second-lien secured term loan indicates our
expectation for negligible (0%-10%; rounded estimate: 0%) recovery in the event of default.
• Our simulated default scenario contemplates a default in 2022, stemming from a decline in EBITDA that limits 24-7
Intouch's ability to fund fixed charges and exhausts available liquidity. This could occur from customer loss or
competitive pressures result in meaningfully weaker profitability.
• Our recovery analysis assumes a reorganization value for the company of about US$210 million, reflecting
emergence EBITDA of about US$38 million and a 5.5x multiple.
• Our EBITDA at emergence estimate represents a significant deterioration from the current state of its business.
• We assume that, in a hypothetical bankruptcy scenario, the company's US$45 million revolving credit facility is 85%
drawn.

Simulated default assumptions
• Simulated year of default: 2022
• EBITDA at emergence: US$38 million
• EBITDA multiple: 5.5x

Simplified waterfall
• Net enterprise value (after 5% administrative costs): US$200 million
• Valuation split in % (obligors/non-obligors): 100/0
---------------------------------------------------------• Total value available to secured first-lien debt claims: US$200 million
• Secured first-lien debt claims: US$286 million
• --Recovery expectations: 50%-70% (rounded estimate: 65%)
• Total value available to secured second-lien debt claims: 0
• Secured second-lien debt claims: US$84 million

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 7

24-7 Intouch Inc

• --Recovery expectations: 0%-10% (rounded estimate: 0%)

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B/Stable/--

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: b
Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: FS-6 (no additional impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, July 1, 2019
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, April 1, 2019
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Business And Consumer Services Industry, Nov. 19,
2013
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Business And Consumer Services Industry, Nov. 19,
2013
• Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• Country Risk Assessment Methodology and Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 8

24-7 Intouch Inc

• Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers, Nov. 13, 2012
• Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Business Risk Profile
Excellent
Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

Ratings Detail (As Of September 20, 2019)*
24-7 Intouch Inc
Issuer Credit Rating

B/Stable/--

Senior Secured

B

Senior Secured

CCC+

Issuer Credit Ratings History
10-Aug-2018

B/Stable/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 9

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 10

