Entravision Communications Corp.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Scott E Zari, CFA, Chicago + 1 (312) 233 7079; scott.zari@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Rose Oberman, CFA, New York 212-438-0354; rose.oberman@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 1

Entravision Communications Corp.
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b+

b

b+

B+/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key Strengths

Key Risks

Significant cash balance provides financial flexibility.

Heavily reliant on content from Univision Communications Inc.
Competition from alternative media and pressure on advertising rates.
Small scale and meaningful geographic concentration.

Substantially all of Entravision's television stations are affiliated with Univision. Entravision Communications Corp.
has no control over the programming supplied by Univision Communications Inc., and Entravision's broadcast
advertising revenue is heavily dependent on Univision's audience ratings, which have declined in recent years amid
competition from both English and other Spanish language media outlets.
Roughly 55% of revenue comes from broadcast advertising, which is cyclical and faces structural pressures from digital
disruption. Broadcast advertising is highly correlated to GDP and is therefore likely to weaken during an economic
downturn. Furthermore, it is susceptible to the migration of advertising to alternative media outlets including online
platforms and, especially, radio.
Entravision's small size and geographic concentration can result in volatile revenue. The company's TV stations are
concentrated in southwestern U.S. and Mexican border markets, and are particularly sensitive to the California and
Texas economies. In addition, Entravision has a limited presence in political battleground states, which results in lower
political ad revenue than its peers.
The company's sizeable cash balance provides substantial liquidity and the potential to reduce leverage through
accretive acquisitions or debt repayment. The company has about $166.7 million of cash and $244.7 million
outstanding on its term loan as of June 30, 2019. Most of its current cash balance was raised from the $264 million sale
of spectrum assets in early 2017. Since then, the company has made roughly $85 million of acquisitions and $50
million of voluntary debt repayment. The flexibility provided by its healthy balance sheet offsets some of the risks
associated with its underperforming broadcast assets. How the company uses this cash balance going forward will be a
key determinant of its credit quality.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 2

Entravision Communications Corp.

Outlook: Stable

The stable outlook reflects our expectation that Entravision's large cash balances will sustain its financial flexibility
despite continued weakness in its broadcast businesses. We believe Entravision will use its cash to make strategic
acquisitions that improve the scale and diversification of the business—and increase its EBITDA—or to repay debt
to reduce leverage.

Downside scenario
We could lower the rating over the next 12 months if Entravision undertakes significant shareholder returns such
that its cash balance significantly declines. We could also lower the rating if it makes large acquisitions that do not
significantly increase the scale or level of EBITDA, yet also reduces financial flexibility.

Upside scenario
We could raise the rating if Entravision uses its cash balance to make acquisitions that considerably increase the
scale and diversity of the company's revenue sources. The company would also need to improve its existing core
broadcasting business by returning to organic revenue growth and stabilizing its EBITDA margin. Alternatively, we
could raise the rating if the company uses its cash to repay debt such that adjusted leverage decreases to less than
4x on a sustained basis.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 3

Entravision Communications Corp.

Our Base-Case Scenario
Assumptions

Key Metrics

• U.S. GDP growth of 2.5% in 2019 and 1.8% in 2020.
• We expect core (excluding political) advertising
revenue growth will be slightly below GDP for the
television broadcasting industry in 2019 and 3%-5%
lower in 2020 because of displacement from political
advertising.

A—Actual. E—Estimate. FOCF—Free operating cash
flow. *We use eight quarters of EBITDA in our average
leverage calculation to smooth the impact of political
revenue.

• We assume core spot radio advertising will be down
1%-2% over the next few years, lower than our GDP
growth expectations due to secular pressures facing
the radio industry from competition by alternative
media.
• We expect Entravision's advertising revenue will lag
our expectations for the broader industry over the
next two years due to continued weakness in its
markets and lower demand for its targeted
demographics.
• Revenues to decline 1.5%-3% in 2019, with declines
in the radio and television segment outpacing the
growth in digital revenues. We expect revenue
growth in the 4%-6% range in 2020 driven mainly by
political revenue.
• Adjusted EBITDA margin declining towards the high
teen percentage area in 2019 as revenue declines
outpace cost reductions in the television and radio
segments and growth in the lower-margin digital
segment. However, we expect margins to improve
to the low 20% area in 2020 due to high-margin
political revenue growth.
• Gross debt to average, trailing eight-quarter EBITDA
expected to remain in the high-4x area in 2019 and
2020.
• Share repurchases of $15 million to $20 million in
2019 and in 2020.

Base-case projections
We expect the company will use its sizable cash balance to fund additional tuck-in acquisitions. We assume the
company will use most of its cash, raised mainly from spectrum auction proceeds in 2017, to fund additional tuck-in
acquisitions. However, we have not included acquisitions in our base-case forecast because we are uncertain of the

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 4

Entravision Communications Corp.

timing or size of potential acquisitions. If the company instead elects to voluntarily repay debt, leverage could be better
than we expect.

Company Description
Entravision is a local television and radio broadcaster focused on serving the Hispanic population in America.
Entravision has 55 television stations (operating in 19 of the top 50 Hispanic markets) and is the largest affiliate of
Univision's television network. The company's radio segment consists of 49 owned and operated (primarily
Spanish-language) radio stations. The company also sells advertising through its small but growing digital business.
Entravision is publically owned, but its CEO has 57% of the voting power. Univision also has an 11% non-voting stake
and must consent to any mergers or acquisitions involving a Univision affiliate.

Business Risk: Weak
Entravision's broadcast advertising revenue is exposed to both geographic and demographic concentration, as well as
structural changes in media consumption habits that is driving more advertising to online platforms. The company also
faces economic challenges in its local markets, many of which are near the border between the U.S. and Mexico,
because those markets face obstacles related to immigration and trade issues that are not as pronounced as in the rest
of the country. Unlike with English-language media, advertising pricing for Spanish-language media isn't
commensurate with audience share, and we expect this trend to continue for the foreseeable future, given the
significant gap in advertising rates. Moreover, competition among Hispanic broadcasters is expanding more rapidly
than ad spending to reach Hispanic audiences, which is hurting individual Spanish-language broadcasters. We believe
these factors contributed to Entravision's broadcast advertising revenue declining more than the rest of the industry
over the past few years.
The company has long-term network affiliation agreements with Univision (expiring in 2026, except in three markets
expiring in 2021) that give it the exclusive right to broadcast Univision's primary network and Uni-Mas network
programming. While we previously viewed the close relationship between Entravision and Univision favorably (as it
allowed Entravision to incur limited cash costs for network or syndicated programming while providing stable
retransmission revenue growth), this relationship has been challenging for Entravision. Univision's ratings have been
declining over the past few years, and Entravision has little ability to counter the falloff because it has no control over
the programming supplied by Univision. Moreover, the retransmission revenue arrangement between the two
companies largely benefits Univision, as Entravision receives an approximately mid-single-digit percent annual
contractual increase, even as industry retransmission revenue is growing at twice that rate or more.
As broadcast advertising revenues have declined, the company has invested heavily in acquiring digital assets. We
expect Entravision's digital marketing solutions to offset the decline in its traditional broadcast businesses and provide
overall revenue growth. However, the digital segment is currently much less profitable than the television segment.
The company is attempting to improve the profitability of digital by focusing on higher-margin transactions instead of
revenue growth.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 5

Entravision Communications Corp.

Peer comparison
We view Entravision's business as weaker than all of its local television broadcasting peers. We believe that with the
changes occurring in advertising, it's important for companies to have more focus on their retransmission revenues,
which can give them some revenue stability. Entravision's retransmission revenue as a percentage of total television
revenue was 23% in 2018, which significantly lags its peers, which are all in the 30%-50% range. Additionally,
Entravision's retransmission revenue is growing much slower than its peers due to its unfavorable agreement with
Univision.
We view Entravision as somewhat in line with Urban One Inc. Both are of similar size, both have television and radio
outlets, and both target a specific demographic (Urban One focuses on African-American audiences). Urban One's
television asset, however, is a cable network instead of broadcast stations, and it is facing pressures due to subscriber
declines. But it has a much higher EBITDA margin because its radio stations are significantly more profitable than
Entravision's. Although we view Entravision's business as similar to Urban One's, leverage at Entravision is lower and
Entravision has greater financial flexibility due to its significant cash balances.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
Entravision's gross debt to average, trailing eight-quarter EBITDA improved to 5.0x as of June 30, 2019, from 5.3x as
of June 30, 2018. The improvement was mainly due to the company repaying $50 million of its term loan in December
2018, which more than offset the 2018 EBITDA decline relative to 2016. We expect leverage to remain in the high 4x
area in 2019 and 2020 due to relatively flat EBITDA growth and no major debt repayments.
The company has financial flexibility due to its substantial cash balance. However, it is still unclear what the company
plans to do with its cash. If it uses its cash to pursue growth acquisitions with low-levels of profitability or uses the cash
to reward shareholders, leverage will remain elevated. The company is currently using nearly all of its excess cash flow
on dividends and share repurchases. We expect Entravision to prioritize future acquisitions, likely in the digital
segment, over further debt repayment.

Liquidity: Strong
We expect Entravision's liquidity sources will exceed uses by almost 6x over the next 12 months, and that net sources
would remain positive even with a 30% decline in forecast EBITDA. Entravision's liquidity position is largely supported
by its sizable cash balance, which would provide some financial flexibility if the company faces a prolonged period of
stress. In addition, the company does not have any debt maturities until 2024. However, Entravision operates without
a revolver, and we expect cash balances will fall over time from additional acquisitions and secular and cyclical
business challenges.

Principal Liquidity Sources
• Cash and cash equivalents of about $167 million as of June 30, 2019; and
• Cash funds from operations of $35 million to $40 million over the next 12 months.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 6

Entravision Communications Corp.

Principal Liquidity Uses
• Annual capital expenditures of roughly $15 million (net of reimbursements);
• Mandatory amortization of $3 million; and
• Dividend payments of $15 million to $20 million annually.

Debt maturities
The company's $300 million senior secured term loan B ($244.7 million outstanding) matures on November 30, 2024.

Covenant Analysis
There are no financial maintenance covenants under the company's senior secured credit facility.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• Entravision Communications Corp. is the borrower of a $300 million senior secured term loan B maturing in 2024
(approximately $244.7 million outstanding).
• The term loan is fully guaranteed by the company and its wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries and secured on a first
priority basis by the company's assets.

Simulated default assumptions

Simplified waterfall

• Our simulated default scenario contemplates a
default in 2023 resulting from a decline in
advertising revenue due to economic weakness, a
lack of political and World Cup advertising revenue,
or increased competition from alternative media.

• EBITDA at emergence: $32 million

• We believe that the company will be able to
reorganize post default given its good brand name,
long-term relationship with Univision, and growth in
the U.S. Hispanic population. We have valued the
company using a 6.5x multiple of our projected
emergence EBITDA, which is below the 7x EBITDA
multiple we use for larger rated TV broadcasting
peers.

• Estimated senior secured debt at default: $240
million

• EBITDA multiple: 6.5x
• Net enterprise value (after 5% administrative costs):
$197 million

• --Recovery expectations: 70%-90% (rounded
estimate: 80%)
All debt includes six months of prepetition interest.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B+/Stable/--

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 7

Entravision Communications Corp.

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: b
Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: Neutral (no impact)
• Liquidity: Strong (+1 notch)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)
Stand-alone credit profile : b+

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Methodology For Linking Long-Term And Short-Term Ratings, April 7, 2017
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Media And Entertainment Industry, Dec. 24, 2013
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 8

Entravision Communications Corp.

Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Business Risk Profile
Excellent
Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

Ratings Detail (As Of August 15, 2019)*
Entravision Communications Corp.
Issuer Credit Rating

B+/Stable/--

Senior Secured

BB-

Issuer Credit Ratings History
16-Jul-2018

B+/Stable/--

14-Nov-2017

BB-/Stable/--

10-Mar-2017

BB-/Watch Pos/--

12-Jun-2015

BB-/Stable/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 9

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 10

