American Builders & Contractors
Supply Co. Inc.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Kimberly M Garen, New York (1) 212-438-4615; kimberly.garen@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Thomas J Nadramia, New York + 1 (212) 438 3944; thomas.nadramia@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 1

American Builders & Contractors Supply Co. Inc.
Business Risk: FAIR

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

bb

bb

bb
BB/Stable/--

Financial Risk: SIGNIFICANT
Highly leveraged

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key Strengths

Key Risks

Largest distributer of roofing products in the U.S. with strong distribution
network.

Commodity-like interior and exterior building materials products
with little differentiation.

Sales are more heavily weighted toward the repair and remodeling market,
which provides more stable revenues than new construction.

Operation in a highly competitive and fragmented market.

Continued bolt-on acquisitions and large size compared to peers.

Exposure to product cost volatility with somewhat constrained
ability to pass on costs to customers.

Above-average EBITDA margins of around 10.0%, the highest among its
distribution peers.

Addition of wallboard distribution business that increases exposure
to new construction and potential earnings volatility.

Stable leverage metrics of 3.0x-3.5x by the end of 2019.

Revenue growth has outpaced construction and replacement markets in 2019 due to share gains and
growth initiatives.
We expect ABC Supply's revenue to grow in excess of 10% for full-year 2019 on acquisitions and market share gain
from its competitors. We project low- to mid-single-digit growth thereafter, with the company maintaining its large
scale and dominant market position.

ABC's leverage will likely remain stable despite some margin contraction.
We expect a slight decline in EBITDA margin by 10 basis points (bps)-30 bps for 2019 based on increased product cost
and less pricing momentum than in prior years. However, we expect full-year adjusted EBITDA margins will remain
just above 10% allowing the company to finish 2019 with debt leverage of less than 3.5x with further reductions below
3x for 2020, absent any material acquisitions.

Sizeable cash flow generation will continue to support capex and growth initiatives while supporting
distributions to owners.
ABC generates strong free cash flow more than sufficient to fund working capital growth, capex, and its normal levels
of distributions to owners. The company's sizable cash flows also allow for the potential to quickly de-lever after any
debt-financed acquisitions.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 2

American Builders & Contractors Supply Co. Inc.

Outlook: Stable

The stable outlook on ABC Supply reflects our expectation that over the next 12 months the company will
continue to generate positive free cash flow and maintain strong liquidity. At the same time, we expect it to
maintain total leverage (including lease obligations) of 3.0x-3.5x. We expect ABC to reduce leverage over the next
12 months through debt reduction and earnings accretion.

Downside scenario
We could downgrade ABC within the next 12 months if the company's leverage trended above 4.0x. This could
occur if the U.S. housing starts and consumer spending contracted in a recessionary environment (on which our
economists place a 25%-30% probability). This, in our view, would mean at least a 200-bps decline in its EBITDA
margin, which we consider unlikely in the current operating environment.

Upside scenario
In our opinion, an upgrade is also unlikely over the next 12 months. However, we could upgrade ABC if it
permanently increased earnings margins as a result of a more attractive product mix and/or stronger economies of
scale from its expanded operating breadth, while keeping leverage below 3.0x as the company grows by
acquisitions. An upgrade would also require our expectation that leverage could remain at or below this level even
in a cyclical housing downturn.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 3

American Builders & Contractors Supply Co. Inc.

Assumptions

Key Metrics

• U.S. real GDP growth of 2.5% in 2019 and 1.8% in
2020.
Debt to EBITDA (x)

• 1.3 million housing starts in 2019 and 2020.
• Repair and remodel spending growth in the
low-single digits in 2019 and 2020.
• Residential investment contraction of 1.3% in 2019
and growth of 1.8% in 2020.
• Nonresidential investment contraction of 1.4% in
2019 and growth of 3.3% in 2020.

2018A

2019E

2020E

3.2

3.0-3.5

2.5-3.0

FFO to debt (%)

26.2 25.0-35.0 25.0-35.0

OCF to debt (%)

11.6 15.0-20.0 27.0-32.0

ABC is a privately held company and does not disclose
its financial results. A—Actual. E—Estimate.
OCF—Operating cash flow.

• Annual capital spending of about $250 million–$275
million;
• Annual debt amortization of $10 million-$25 million
in each of the next two years.
• Dividend distribution (majority for tax payments) of
approximately $300 million in each of 2019 and
2020.
• Annual acquisition spending of $50 million-$100
million in each of the next two years.

Base-case projections
Under our base-case scenario we expect:
• ABC Supply's revenue to grow approximately in the low-double digits at around 10% in 2019 and low- to mid-single
digits in 2020;
• Adjusted EBITDA margin dip of 10 bps–30 bps in 2019 to 10.1% before recovering to the current level of 10.3% in
2020; and
• We expect the company to continue to generate stable positive free cash flow over the next 12 months to 24
months.

Company Description
ABC Supply Co. Inc. is a leading wholesale distributor of roofing and wallboard in the U.S. It also distributes siding,
windows, and other select exterior and interior building products, as well as tools and related supplies. It operates
close to 800 branches and other facilities in 49 states. The company operates in two business segments, exterior and
interior. The exterior operating segment primarily distributes roofing, siding, windows, gutters, and other select
building products. The interior operating segment primarily distributes wallboard, metal framing, ceiling tiles and grids,
and other select building products.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 4

American Builders & Contractors Supply Co. Inc.

Business Risk: Fair
Our rating on ABC Supply reflects our view of the company's strong market position as the largest roofing and building
products distributor in the U.S., its effective business strategy of market growth, and its above-average margins
compared to peers. It sells the majority of its products to professional contractors and builders for use in the residential
and commercial end markets. A significant portion of revenue comes from repair and remodeling, which tend to be
less cyclical and benefit from more stable demand than new residential or commercial construction. Weather patterns
can favorably (or unfavorably) affect operations during the spring and summer selling seasons. However, its national
footprint allows for participation during most storm activity throughout the country.
ABC Supply is one and a half times larger than its closest peer, Beacon Roofing Supply Inc. Furthermore, we consider
ABC Supply's EBITDA margin to be above average at around 10%, higher than that of other rated building materials
distribution peers such as Beacon Roofing (about 8%), Builders FirstSource Inc. (about 7%), and BMC Stock Holdings
(about 7%). The company maintains strong bargaining power with its suppliers and its ability to integrate new
acquisitions gives stability to its margins.
The fragmented nature of the building products distribution space, which leads to intense competition, limited pricing
power, and a lack of product differentiation, somewhat temper these business strengths. Its nationwide reach is limited
by its high product concentration due to heavy dependence on the roofing and wallboard segments. We also
acknowledge ABC's limited ability to pass on increased product costs and its lack of vertical integration during a
downturn.

Financial Risk: Significant
Our ratings reflects ABC Supply's metrics as of June 30, 2019 of leverage of 3.6x, funds from operations (FFO) to debt
of 23%, and EBITDA interest coverage of above 5x, levels that are in line with the current rating. We expect the
company to improve its credit metrics over the next 12 months due to strong cash flows, reduced debt, and EBITDA
growth. We project ABC Supply to deleverage to just above 3x at fiscal year-end 2019 and slightly below 3x at fiscal
year-end 2020 with FFO to adjusted debt between 25%-30% for 2019 and 2020, assuming it makes no sizable
acquisitions or special dividends during that time.
ABC's financial risk is further strengthened by its healthy and consistent FFO of about $900 million-$950 million per
year, more than sufficient to meet capital requirements and working capital needs. This, along with a strong liquidity
position, should enable the company to continue with its dividend distribution policy (with the majority going toward
tax payments). The company's ability to maintain leverage within our expectations while maintaining a capital
allocation policy that funds working capital, growth, capex, and dividends from operating cash flows is a key
consideration in our analysis.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 5

American Builders & Contractors Supply Co. Inc.

Liquidity: Strong
We assess ABC Supply's liquidity as strong. Our view is based on our expectation that sources will exceed uses by
over 2x over the next 24 months.
We expect that liquidity sources would continue to exceed uses even if forecast EBITDA were to decline by 30%. The
company should continue to exceed the availability threshold under its credit facility, even with a 30% drop in
EBITDA.
We expect that the company could absorb high-impact, low-probability events without refinancing as it has high
asset-backed lending (ABL) availability and high internal cash generation. We believe it has sound relationships with
banks, considering its history of issuance of public debt and various term loan repricing. We assess the company's
standing in the credit markets as satisfactory relative to rated peers.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Cash and equivalents of approximately $0.6 million
as of June 30, 2019;

• Seasonal working capital requirements of
approximately $120 million-$130 million in 2019 and
$190 million-$200 million in 2020;

• Availability of $352 million under its $1.00 billion
credit facility as of June 30, 2019; and
• FFO of about $900 million-$950 million over each of
the next two years.

• Annual capital spending of about $250 million–$275
million;
• Annual debt amortization of $10 million-$25 million
in each of the next two years;
• Dividend distribution of approximately $300 million
in each of 2019 and 2020; and
• Annual acquisition spending of $50 million-$100
million in each of the next two years.

Debt maturities
• $1.0 billion ABL facility matures on Sept. 28, 2023;
• $1.88 billion (balance as of June 30, 2019 of $1.82 billion) senior secured term loan matures Sept. 28, 2023;
• $600 million senior unsecured notes matures on May 15, 2026; and
• $350 million senior secured notes matures on Dec. 15, 2023.

Covenant Analysis
The company's credit agreements are covenant-lite.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 6

American Builders & Contractors Supply Co. Inc.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• ABC Supply's $1.875 billion secured term loan has a '2' recovery rating, indicating our expectation for high
(70%-90%; rounded estimate: 85%) recovery for lenders in the event of payment default. The issue-level rating is
'BB+', in line with our notching guidelines for a '2' recovery rating.
• The company's $600 million 5.875% senior unsecured notes due in 2026 and $350 million 5.75% senior secured
notes due in 2023 have a '6' recovery rating, indicating our expectation for negligible (0%-10%, rounded estimate:
0%) recovery for lenders in the event of payment default. The issue-level rating is 'B+', in line with our notching
guidelines for a '6' recovery rating.
• Our assessment of recovery prospects contemplates a reorganization value for the company of about $2.5 billion,
reflecting emergence EBITDA of about $425 million and a 6x multiple. Our emergence EBITDA assumption
contemplates a rebound in profitability following the sharp cyclical downturn that we believe is required for the
company to default. As a result, our EBITDA assumption does not purport to represent a default-level EBITDA,
which we think could be substantially lower. The 6x multiple is within the 5x-6x range that we generally use for
building products companies. We note that we generally use 5.5x-6.0x multiples for building distribution companies
given the high multiples being paid for companies in this space.
• Our simulated default scenario contemplates a default in 2024, stemming from a downturn in the company's end
markets (namely U.S. residential and nonresidential roofing and reroofing), with a combination of significant
decreases in sales volumes and price, higher operating costs, heightened competition, and significant price increases
imposed by suppliers that cannot be passed on to customers. Under our default scenario, we also envision the
closing of a significant number of branches, leading to a loss of market share to other competitors.

Simulated default assumptions
• Year of default: 2024
• EBITDA at emergence: $425 million
• Implied enterprise valuation (EV) multiple: 6x
• Gross EV: $2,500 million

Simplified waterfall
• Net EV (after 5% administrative costs): $2,400 million
• Priority claims and adjustments: $800 million
• Total collateral value for secured claims (U.S. value remaining after coverage of ABL facility plus 65% of foreign
value): $1,600 million
---------------------------------------------------------------• Total term loan claim: $1,800 million
• --Recovery expectation for term loan: 80%-90% (rounded estimate: 85%)
----------------------------------------------------------------

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 7

American Builders & Contractors Supply Co. Inc.

• Remaining enterprise value for senior unsecured claims (excess collateral plus unencumbered value): $0 million
• Estimated unsecured claims: $1,200 million
• --Recovery expectation for senior notes: 0%-10% (rounded estimate: 0%)

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
BB/Stable/--

Business risk: Fair

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Satisfactory
Financial risk: Significant

• Cash flow/Leverage: Aggressive
Anchor: bb
Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: Neutral (no impact)
• Liquidity: Strong (no impact)
• Management and governance: Satisfactory (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)
Stand-alone credit profile : bb

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Methodology For Linking Long-Term And Short-Term Ratings, April 7, 2017
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Building Materials Industry, Dec. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 8

American Builders & Contractors Supply Co. Inc.

• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Business Risk Profile

Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly leveraged

Excellent

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

Fair

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Strong
Satisfactory

Ratings Detail (As Of September 25, 2019)*
American Builders & Contractors Supply Co. Inc.
Issuer Credit Rating

BB/Stable/--

Senior Secured

BB+

Senior Unsecured

B+

Issuer Credit Ratings History
20-Sep-2016

BB/Stable/--

30-Aug-2016

BB/Watch Neg/--

21-Mar-2016

BB/Stable/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 9

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 10

