Tennessee State School Bond
Authority; Non-Profit Organizations;
Public Coll/Univ - Unlimited Student
Fees
Primary Credit Analyst:
Mary Ellen E Wriedt, San Francisco (1) 415-371-5027; maryellen.wriedt@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Sean M Wiley, Chicago (1) 312-233-7050; sean.wiley@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Rationale
Outlook
Enterprise Profile
Financial Profile

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 1

Tennessee State School Bond Authority;
Non-Profit Organizations; Public Coll/Univ Unlimited Student Fees
Credit Profile
US$139.2 mil hgher ed facs second prog bnds ser 2019A dtd 09/18/2019 due 11/01/2049
Long Term Rating

AA+/Stable

New

US$60.2 mil hgher ed facs second prog bnds ser 2019B due 11/01/2044
Long Term Rating

AA+/Stable

New

AA+/Stable

Affirmed

Tennessee St Sch Bnd Auth nonproforg
Long Term Rating

Rationale
S&P Global Ratings assigned its 'AA+' long-term rating to the Tennessee State School Bond Authority's (TSSBA)
$139.2 million series 2019A and $60.2 million series 2019B (taxable) second program bonds. At the same time, S&P
Global Ratings affirmed its 'AA+' long-term rating and underlying rating (SPUR) on the TSSBA's second program debt
outstanding. The outlook is stable.
The 'AA+' ratings on the authority's second program debt reflect the application of our government-related entity
(GRE) criteria, which provides a one-notch uplift to TSSBA's stand-alone credit profile (SACP) of 'aa' based on its role
and link with the state of Tennessee, and likelihood of extraordinary government support (see "General Criteria: Rating
Government-Related Entities: Methodology And Assumptions," published March 25, 2015, on RatingsDirect). The
SACP reflects the underlying credit quality of TSSBA without the benefit of extraordinary state support. It also reflects
our view of the underlying credit strength of the state's two systems of public higher education.
TSSBA is a component unit of Tennessee. It issues debt for revenue-supported projects for the University of
Tennessee (UT) Board of Trustees, which oversees the UT system (composed of four universities and three institutes),
and the Tennessee Board of Regents (TBR), which for the purposes of the TSSBA program is the governing body for
six state universities, 13 community colleges, and 27 technology centers.
Credit factors that support the 'AA+' ratings reflect our opinion of:
• The broad pledge of fees and charges generated by all of Tennessee's publicly supported colleges and universities
and some of its community colleges; this revenue is used to pay debt service for new and outstanding debt issued
under the second program resolution;
• The presence of a strong state appropriation-intercept mechanism, if fees and charges are insufficient to pay debt
service;
• The historically strong levels of operating and capital support for the state's system of higher education, and
increased funding levels in recent years; and

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 2

Tennessee State School Bond Authority; Non-Profit Organizations; Public Coll/Univ - Unlimited Student Fees

• The broad revenue and geographic diversity of the statewide system from 23 higher education institutions.
Partially offsetting the preceding credit strengths is our view of substantial capital needs for system institutions
requiring the issuance of additional new second program debt within the foreseeable future.
Total debt as of July 31, 2019, was $1.7 billion, composed of $1.5 billion of debt issued under the second program and
approximately $172.5 million of revolving credit loans. TSSBA entered into a revolving credit agreement with Wells
Fargo Bank N.A. and U.S. Bank N.A., effective March 20, 2014, and renewed March 2017 and April 2018. The
revolving credit agreement serves as a means of interim financing for the various institutions' projects with the intent
to convert this short-term debt to long-term debt, typically within 12 to 18 months. The maximum amount authorized
under the revolving credit agreement for TSSBA is $300 million.
The security for the bonds is a gross revenue pledge of both systems, and the two boards agree and covenant to
charge rates sufficient to produce at least 2x coverage of annual financing charges in any fiscal year for all debt. The
bonds are also secured by a statutory intercept of revenue by the state. Under the second bond program, the state
commissioner of finance and administration will, within one business day, intercept any operations and maintenance
(O&M) appropriations to the publicly funded institutions with projects under the resolution if TSSBA notifies the
commissioner that funds on hand are insufficient to pay debt service. We consider the intercept program to be strong.
The full amount of appropriations (which include amounts for nonformula units and colleges of applied technology
centers in addition to formula funding) for both the UT and TBR systems is available for intercept. Annual financing
charges and the intercept of operating appropriations are specific to both systems based on each capital project's
unpaid debt service amount. We understand that the commissioner has never used the intercept provision and the
program has a 52-year history (since the first issuance of debt in 1967) of no debt service shortfalls or defaults, which
we view favorably.

Outlook
The stable outlook reflects our expectation that the debt financing program administered by TSSBA will continue to
collect sufficient revenue from each respective institution to generate solid debt service coverage (DSC), as has been
the case historically. In our view, issuance of additional second program debt should be accompanied by maintenance
of solid DSC and stable financial performance at both UT and TBR systems.

Downside scenario
In our view, the ratings could come under pressure if there is a sustained deterioration in revenue systemwide, or if the
issuance of substantial additional debt within the outlook period materially dilutes DSC for the second program bonds.
Based on our GRE criteria, a change in the Tennessee general obligation (GO) rating, or in the links between TSSBA
and the state, could affect the 'AA+' ratings on TSSBA's second program debt.

Upside scenario
A positive change to TSSBA's SACP within the outlook period is unlikely, in our opinion, given the authority's
additional debt issuance plans.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 3

Tennessee State School Bond Authority; Non-Profit Organizations; Public Coll/Univ - Unlimited Student Fees

Enterprise Profile
The TSSBA is a component unit of Tennessee. It issues debt for revenue-supported projects for the TBR and the UT
Board of Trustees, which oversees the UT system. The TSSBA powers are vested in its members, who consist of the
governor, the comptroller of the treasury, the secretary of state, the state treasurer, the commissioner of finance and
administration, the chancellor of the TBR, and the president of the UT. The governor serves as the TSSBA chairman,
and the comptroller of the treasury serves as the secretary.
We understand system administration and the organizational structure remain predominantly stable, with the
exception being the FOCUS Act restructuring for TBR. Per the FOCUS Act state legislation effective July 1, 2016,
separate state university boards for TBR's six four-year universities have been created to allow a streamlined TBR to
concentrate specifically on community and technical colleges, which have experienced significant growth under the
"Tennessee Promise" scholarship. According to management, this restructuring has not affected the structure of, or the
process and procedures for the financing of TSSBA higher educational facilities projects of, the second program bonds
we rate for the TSSBA.

Government-related entities
In accordance with our criteria for GREs, we based our view of a "high" likelihood of extraordinary government
support on our assessment of the TSSBA's "very strong" link with the state of Tennessee, given the state's strong
influence on the system's strategic and business plans, its history of annual operating and capital appropriations, and
the timely manner in which the state could respond to the need for extraordinary support. We also based our
assessment on the TSSBA's "important" role in the state's economy compared with that of other state GREs, given that
UT and TBR are the sole providers of public higher education in the state and its resulting contributions to the state's
economic development. A change in the Tennessee GO rating could result in a change to the TSSBA long-term ratings
and SPURs.

Demand and enrollment
We consider the size, stability, and geographic diversity of the TBR and UT systems to be key credit strengths. The
TBR system includes six universities, 13 community colleges, and 27 technology centers; the UT system comprises
four universities and three institutes. Total fall 2018 systemwide, including TBR and UT, full-time-equivalent (FTE)
enrollment was 175,794, a 1.4% increase from fall 2017. Fall 2018 FTE enrollment at TBR was 70,955 for universities
and 58,713 for community colleges; fall 2018 FTE enrollment at the UT system was 46,126.
Enrollment has increased as a result of Tennessee Promise, which was effective in fall 2015. Tennessee Promise is a
last-dollar scholarship program designed to cover mandatory tuition and fees at community colleges. This program is
funded from interest earnings from the endowment's corpus, which was established from the education lottery reserve.
Per management, this initiative is expected to continue to increase its community college enrollment over the program
time frame and also result in longer-term enrollment growth in the number of students transferring to four-year
universities from community colleges.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 4

Tennessee State School Bond Authority; Non-Profit Organizations; Public Coll/Univ - Unlimited Student Fees

Financial Profile
State appropriations
In January 2010, the Tennessee legislature passed the Complete College Tennessee Act. The act had three major
outcomes: It changed the higher education funding from enrollment-based to one that rewards increased degree and
certificate completion rates, expanded the role of community colleges, and established statewide transfer policy from
community colleges to four-year universities.
Management indicates funding for higher education remains a priority for the state. State funding for higher education
has averaged roughly 12% of budgeted expenditures for the past 10 years. Total state operating appropriations
(including funding for nonformula units) for fiscal 2020 is projected at $1.5 billion and for fiscal 2019 were $1.4 billion.
We consider the state support to be a key credit strength.

Finances and debt
Revenue used to pay the annual debt financing charges includes tuition, fees, auxiliary revenue, hospital revenue, and
other components, which have historically produced very strong coverage of maximum annual debt service (MADS) at
each borrowing institution. The boards that govern the state's two systems of higher education, namely the UT Board
of Trustees and the TBR, are responsible for meeting the semiannual debt service requirements. The two boards agree
in covenants to charge rates sufficient to produce no less than 2x coverage of annual financing charges in any fiscal
year for all debt. If this revenue is insufficient, the state appropriations for O&M will be called on to make the payment.
Historically, coverage of debt service from fees and charges at both systems (UT and TBR) continues to far exceed the
rate covenant and is a key credit strength, in our opinion. At the close of fiscal year 2018, DSC from gross fees and
charges only (excluding state appropriations) was 9.5x for the UT system and 23.8x for the TBR system. We view
these levels as solid versus the 2x covenant. Including state appropriations, the full amount of which is available to
intercept in the event of a debt service default, coverage was stronger, at 16.2x for the UT system and 37.2x for the
TBR system.
We consider the conservative debt structure to be a credit strength. All of TSSBA's long-term debt is fixed rate, and
there are no swap contracts. Authorized and approved capital projects total $543.4 million, including $168.4 million
already issued under the revolving credit loans. TSSBA will fund projects included in the authorized total partially
through the bonds and partially through the revolving credit loans, which will then be converted to long-term debt in
the next three to five years. We recognize TSSBA's near-term capital needs and debt issuance plans are sizable. We
have currently not factored the additional planned debt into our analysis and will fully evaluate its effects at the time of
issuance and factoring in future amortization of second program debt. We also expect MADS coverage on the second
program debt and UT and TBR financial metrics to remain sound.
Debt service payments on second program debt are due Nov. 1 and May 1 each year. The aggregate second program
debt service schedule is heavily frontloaded, with MADS, including the series 2019 debt service, at $150 million in
fiscal 2021. Bond amortization is rapid, in our view, with approximately 70% of current outstanding bond principal to
be retired within the next 15 years.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 5

Tennessee State School Bond Authority; Non-Profit Organizations; Public Coll/Univ - Unlimited Student Fees

In our view, the TSSBA is conservative in terms of how it selects capital projects submitted to it by the two systems for
debt financing. It is our understanding that when a system institution applies for project funding through the TSSBA, it
must include in its annual budgets sufficient funds to repay debt service costs for those projects. The TSSBA analyzes
the financial feasibility of each request for funding before approval of the relevant project. If the TSSBA does not
approve a project's financing within two years, the institution must resubmit the project. On a systemwide basis
(including both UT and TBR system institutions), total debt including second program bonds and revolving credit
loans per FTE was roughly $9,600 as of July 31, 2019, which we consider manageable.
Ratings Detail (As Of August 20, 2019)
Tennessee St Sch Bnd Auth hgr ed fac 2nd prog bnds ser 2017A dtd 09/20/2017 due 11/01/2047
Long Term Rating

AA+/Stable

Affirmed

Tennessee St Sch Bnd Auth hgr ed fac 2nd prog bnds (taxable) ser 2017C dtd 09/20/2017 due 11/01/2039
Long Term Rating

AA+/Stable

Affirmed

Tennessee St Sch Bnd Auth hgr ed fac 2nd prog bnds (tax-exempt) ser 2017B dtd 09/20/2017 due 11/01/2039
Long Term Rating

AA+/Stable

Affirmed

AA+/Stable

Affirmed

AA+/Stable

Affirmed

AA+/Stable

Affirmed

AA+/Stable

Affirmed

AA+/Stable

Affirmed

AA+(SPUR)/Stable

Affirmed

Tennessee St Sch Bnd Auth nonproforg
Long Term Rating
Tennessee St Sch Bnd Auth nonproforg
Long Term Rating
Tennessee St Sch Bnd Auth nonproforg
Long Term Rating
Tennessee St Sch Bnd Auth nonproforg
Long Term Rating
Tennessee St Sch Bnd Auth nonproforg ICR
Long Term Rating
Series 1998B, 2002A, 2004A, 2004B, 2004C
Unenhanced Rating
Many issues are enhanced by bond insurance.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 6

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 20, 2019 7

