Cumulus Media Inc.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Scott E Zari, CFA, Chicago + 1 (312) 233 7079; scott.zari@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Rose Oberman, CFA, New York 212-438-0354; rose.oberman@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 1

Cumulus Media Inc.
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b-

b-

b-

B-/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key Strengths

Key Risks

Healthy free cash flow characteristics and proceeds from additional
asset sales provide a path to reduce leverage.

Competition from alternative media puts pressure on advertising rates,
which are also sensitive to economic downturns.
Lower percentage of growing digital revenue relative to that of its peers.
Leverage of 5.1x as of March 31, 2019, has declined following asset sales
yet is still high for a radio broadcaster.

Terrestrial radio broadcasters are faced with structural pressures from digital disruption, resulting in lower advertising
rates. Digital advertising is taking away money from traditional forms of advertising, including radio, newspaper, and
television. We expect this trend to continue, making it difficult for Cumulus and other radio broadcasters to increase
advertising rates, resulting in low-single-digit annual percentage declines in radio-industry advertising revenues.
About 90% of Cumulus's revenue is generated from local and national radio advertising, which is highly sensitive to
economic downturns. We believe Cumulus's profitability would significantly decline in a recession because nearly all of
its revenue is generated from terrestrial radio broadcasting and its cost base is largely fixed.
Cumulus has used the net proceeds from noncore asset sales to reduce debt. The company has executed three asset
sales since emerging from bankruptcy and used the proceeds, together with cash generated from operations, to reduce
debt by about $250 million.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 2

Cumulus Media Inc.

Outlook: Stable

The stable outlook reflects our expectation that Cumulus will continue to pursue noncore asset sales and use cash
flow generated from operations to reduce leverage to below 5x over the next 12 months. We also expect that the
company's same-station revenue will perform in line with or slightly above our expectations for a low-single-digit
percentage decline in broadcast-radio revenue.

Downside scenario
We could lower the rating if we expect leverage to increase and remain above 5.5x. This could result from the
company failing to execute on its turnaround strategy, leading to declines in station ratings, revenue
underperforming the industry, and EBITDA margin declining by 100 basis points (bps)-200 bps.

Upside scenario
Although unlikely at this time, we could raise the rating if Cumulus demonstrates significantly improved operating
performance in addition to a track record of substantial debt repayment. More specifically, the company would
need to demonstrate that it can outperform the radio industry and show positive revenue and EBITDA growth for a
sustained period, resulting in leverage declining well below 5x. This scenario could also include the company
pursuing further de-leveraging asset sales beyond current expectations.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 3

Cumulus Media Inc.

Assumptions

• U.S. GDP growth of 2.5% in 2019 and 1.8% in 2020.
We assume core spot advertising (excluding political
advertising) will be relatively flat to down in the
low-single-digit percentages over the next few years;
this is lower than our GDP growth expectations due
to secular pressures facing the radio industry from
competition by alternative media.
• Revenue will decline by 4%-6% in 2019, mainly due
to the impact of divestures and lower political
revenues, partially offset by growth in Westwood
One revenue. We expect revenue to remain roughly
flat in 2020 as increased political revenue offsets the
decline in core radio advertising.

Key Metrics

EBITDA margin (%)

2018A

2019E

2020E

21.6

20-22

20-22

Debt/EBITDA (x)

5.6 4.9.0-5.1 4.8-5.0

FOCF/debt (%)

3.9

6.5-9.5

8-11

A--Actual. E—Estimate. FOCF—Free operating cash
flow.

• We expect costs to decline due to divestitures and
cost- reduction initiatives in 2019; however, we
expect the pace of cost reductions to be slower than
revenue declines and the company's EBITDA
margin to decline to about 21% in 2019 and remain
flat in 2020.
• We expect adjusted leverage to decline to about 5x
by the end of 2019 and to below 5x in 2020, mainly
driven by debt repayment funded by free cash flow
generation and any future asset sales.
• Cumulus's reorganization plan included the sale of
owned real estate in Bethesda, Mld., with the
proceeds used to repay the new term loan. The
company has not yet been able to close on the land
sale; however, we believe it could provide additional
de-leveraging that is not currently incorporated into
our base-case forecast.

Base-case projections
We expect ongoing secular declines in the radio industry over the next few years. Radio advertising is highly cyclical,
especially national advertising, and we expect organic broadcast-only revenue to decline by 1%-2% across the radio
industry.
Radio broadcasters have a high proportion of fixed costs and limited ability to cut costs in response to revenue declines.
If the company cannot offset the secular decline in industrywide broadcast-radio revenue by increasing its market
share or generating a larger percentage of revenue from alternative sources such as digital and events, the decline in
total revenue would have a significant impact on its EBITDA margin.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 4

Cumulus Media Inc.

Westwood One's revenue and EBITDA growth are expected to outperform the traditional radio station group. Revenue
declines at Westwood One hurt the company's profitability since its acquisition in 2013. However, its revenue
stabilized over the past 18-24 months, and we believe it will continue to perform better than the radio station group
over the next 12-18 months due to improved utilization, pricing, and content management.

Company Description
Cumulus Media Inc. operates 428 radio stations in 87 markets, including eight of the top 10 markets, and it is the
third-largest radio broadcaster in the U.S. in terms of revenue. The company also owns and operates Westwood One,
which is a radio network airing syndicated content on over 8,000 affiliated stations. Cumulus is publicly traded, but the
majority of the company's equity is owned by its former lenders, which include hedge funds and distressed-debt
investors that we believe have an increased risk tolerance relative to public ownership.

Business Risk: Weak
Cumulus is more exposed to national radio advertising than its small to mid-size peers due to its Westwood One
business. We view national radio advertising as more volatile than local or direct radio advertising because of
fluctuations in the timing and pricing of agency-based advertising campaigns and our view of radio as more of a
price-taker and somewhat dependent on remnant national spending. However, we believe that having the scale and
presence in key markets necessary to attract national advertising is a competitive strength, as it provides incremental
revenue opportunities compared to those of broadcasters that are only able to sell locally.
We believe advertisers don't value radio audiences as highly as in the past, making it difficult for the industry (and the
company) to increase ad rates and maintain its share of advertising spending. To avoid revenue erosion, we believe
Cumulus and other radio operators need to significantly enhance their nontraditional radio efforts. Digital revenue
accounts for less than 10% of Cumulus's revenue and is not growing fast enough to offset the declines in core radio
advertising revenue. The company's events revenue also accounts for less than 5% of total revenue, which is
significantly less than that of its peers.
The company's radio stations significantly underperformed its markets from late 2014 through mid-2016, leading to
high turnover of on-air talent and steep declines in market rating shares. Following management changes in 2015,
Cumulus remains focused on stabilizing its ratings shares and streamlining its operations. The company has sold and
swapped its stations with other radio broadcasters to optimize its portfolio. Although we believe that the new strategy
has been successful in stabilizing revenue trends, the company faces an uphill battle in regaining market share in a
declining radio environment. We believe it will be difficult for the company to increase its market revenue shares
enough to offset the overall decline in industry advertising revenue, and that revenue growth from radio broadcasting
is unlikely over the next few years.

Peer comparison
Cumulus is the third-largest radio broadcaster in terms of revenue; however, we view its competitive position much
less favorably than that of its larger peers, iHeart and Entercom. iHeart is better positioned to serve national
advertisers by offering greater reach and targeting capabilities, and it has a significantly larger revenue contribution

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 5

Cumulus Media Inc.

from its digital and events businesses. Entercom and Cumulus both generate a much lower percentage of revenues
from digital advertising than iHeart. However, Entercom has a considerably larger presence in the top 25 markets.
We view Cumulus's competitive position as in-line with that of Townsquare Media Inc. because while Cumulus has a
much larger presence in the Top 25 markets and operates at a much larger scale, Townsquare's revenue diversity and
digital growth differentiate it from its pure-play radio peers.
With over 400 stations, Cumulus is larger than Beasley Broadcasting Inc. and Hubbard Radio LLC, and it has better
geographic and station format diversification. Beasley operates 64 stations with concentrations in Philadelphia and
Boston, and Hubbard operates 30 stations with significant revenue concentration among individual stations. However,
Cumulus is more exposed to the volatility of national radio advertising than its small to mid-size peers.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
We believe the company will generate sufficient cash flow from operations and potential asset sales to repay debt and
reduce leverage over the next 12-24 months. We expect Cumulus media to generate around $90 million-$100 million
of adjusted FOCF annually. The credit agreement includes a 75% excess cash flow (ECF) sweep until total net leverage
decreases below 4.5x, at which point the ECF sweep decreases to 50%. The credit agreement also requires
acquisitions to be de-leveraging unless total net leverage pro forma for the acquisition is below 5x. We expect the
company's cash-flow generation to allow it to repay enough debt to reduce leverage modestly over the next few years.

Liquidity: Adequate
We expect liquidity sources to exceed uses by about 4x over the next 12 months, mainly due to the company's
relatively low debt amortization, capital expenditure (capex), and working-capital requirements. The company would
likely maintain the ability to draw on its asset-based loan (ABL) facility in a stress scenario due to its relatively lenient
financial covenants. We also believe the company has a sound relationship with its banks and a satisfactory standing in
credit markets, due to its ability to issue $500 million in senior secured notes to refinance a portion of its term loan in
June 2019.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Cash balance of $20.5 million as of June 30, 2019;

• Roughly $20 million-$25 million in annual capex;

• Full availability under its $50 million asset-based
lending facility maturing in August 2023;

• $13 million of annual mandatory debt amortization;
and

• Cash funds from operations of $100 million-$110
million over the next 12 months; and

• $5 million-$10 million in annual working capital
requirements.

• $12.5 million of proceeds from the contracted sale of
WABC (AM), which is expected to close in the
second half of 2019.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 6

Cumulus Media Inc.

Debt maturities
Cumulus Media's $1.3 billion senior secured term loan (roughly $537 million outstanding) is due on May 15, 2022. In
June 2019, the company issued $500 million of senior secured notes due 2026 to refinance a portion of the term loan.
We believe the lower amount outstanding under the term loan due in 2022 has significantly reduced potential
refinancing risk.

Covenant Analysis
Compliance expectations
• The company does not have any financial covenants associated with its term loan or secured notes.
• Its ABL facility contains a springing fixed-charge coverage ratio of 1x that is only in effect if excess availability on
the revolver would be less than the greater of 12.5% of total commitments or $5 million. We do not expect this
covenant to be in effect over the next 12 months, and believe the company would have substantial headroom with
the covenant if it were in effect.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• The senior secured debt is secured by a first-priority lien on substantially all of the company's assets and those of its
guarantors. The ABL facility has a first-priority lien on its accounts receivable, qualified cash, and related assets.

Simulated default assumptions
• Our simulated default scenario contemplates a default in 2021, stemming from increased competition from
alternative media and a station-ratings underperformance that leads to steep revenue declines and cash-flow
deficits.
• We value the company as a going concern, using a 6x multiple of our projected emergence EBITDA, which is inline with that for other radio companies we rate.
• We assume the ABL facility is 60% drawn in our simulated year of default.

Simplified waterfall
• EBITDA at emergence: About $157 million
• EBITDA multiple: 6.0x
• Net enterprise value (after 5% administrative costs): About $900 million
• Value available to secured debt: About $865 million
• Secured first-lien debt: About $1.2 billion
• --Recovery expectations: 70%-90% (rounded estimate: 70%)
Note: All debt amounts include six months of pre-petition interest.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 7

Cumulus Media Inc.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B-/Stable/--

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: bModifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: FS-6 (no additional impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)
Stand-alone credit profile : b-

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Methodology For Linking Long-Term And Short-Term Ratings, April 7, 2017
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate
Issuers, Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria | Corporates | Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Media And Entertainment Industry, Dec. 24, 2013
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 8

Cumulus Media Inc.

• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
• General Criteria: Rating Implications Of Exchange Offers And Similar Restructurings, Update, May 12, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Business Risk Profile
Excellent
Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

Ratings Detail (As Of August 15, 2019)*
Cumulus Media Inc.
Issuer Credit Rating

B-/Stable/--

Issuer Credit Ratings History
30-May-2018

B-/Stable/--

08-Jan-2018

NR/--/--

01-Dec-2017

D/--/--

02-Nov-2017

SD/--/--

14-Mar-2017

CCC/Negative/--

07-Dec-2016

CC/Negative/--

22-Mar-2016

CCC/Negative/--

06-Nov-2015

B-/Negative/--

05-Mar-2015

B/Negative/--

28-Aug-2014

B/Stable/--

Related Entities
Cumulus Media New Holdings Inc.
Senior Secured

B

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 9

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 10

