Applied Systems Inc.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Geoffrey Wilson, San Francisco + 1 (415) 371 5061; geoffrey.wilson@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Andrew Chang, San Francisco (1) 415-371-5043; andrew.chang@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 1

Applied Systems Inc.
Business Risk: FAIR

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b

b-

b-

B-/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key strengths

Key Risks

Leading provider of third-party insurance broker management systems (BMS)
products and services.

Narrow addressable market in the insurance BMS software
industry.

High level of recurring revenues, strong pricing power, and limited customer
concentration.

Adjusted leverage in the mid-9x area at June 30, 2019.
Financial sponsor ownership.

Leading market position will contribute to continued strong performance in 2019 and 2020. Applied Systems Inc.'s
revenue has grown at around 10% since 2016 (17% in 2015), and S&P Global Ratings expects revenue growth to be
around the same level in 2019. Uncertain economic conditions may cause headwinds for the property and casualty
(P&C) industry in 2020, with lower premiums being underwritten contributing to a slowdown in broker headcount
growth. We view Applied's solution as mission-critical to brokers' operations, and expect ongoing revenue growth in
2020, albeit slightly lower than recent years, at around the mid- to high-single-digit percentage area.
Dividends, share repurchases, and options vesting have been a drain on cash. The nearly $750 million of debt-funded
dividends paid out since October 2016 has materially raised Applied's interest expense since being acquired by its
current sponsor (Hellman & Friedman), almost doubling since fiscal year 2015 to around $120 million annually.
Additionally, cash expenses incurred through the dividend transactions ("make-whole bonuses") and payouts of
options vesting, along with expected share repurchases of around $60 million in 2019, have precluded the company
from repaying debt in excess of its mandatory requirements over the past several years. Nevertheless, Applied's
operating cash flows remains solid (around $40 million in fiscal 2019) and its liquidity sufficient with $51 million in cash
as of June 2019.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 2

Applied Systems Inc.

Outlook: Stable

The stable outlook on Applied reflects our expectation that the company will maintain its good market position in
the insurance broker management systems industry. Additionally, we forecast the company will continue
generating predictable cash flow, leading to modest improvements in credit measures over the next 12 months.

Downside scenario
We could lower the rating if the P&C industry experiences a significant downturn, coupled with increased pricing
pressure from competitors, leading to negative free cash flow and overall weakening liquidity and an inability to
meet its debt service obligations.

Upside scenario
We could consider an upgrade if the company can organically increase revenue in line with past historical rates of
about 10% and continue to recognize slight EBITDA margin expansion from a favorable revenue mix shift from
license products to SaaS, leading to leverage sustained below 8x.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 3

Applied Systems Inc.

Assumptions

Key Metrics

• U.S. GDP growth of 2.5% in 2019 and 1.8% in 2020;

• S&P Global Ratings' adjusted leverage near 10x in
fiscal 2019, and near 8x in fiscal 2020; and

• Annual global information technology (IT) spending
growth of 2% to 4%;
• Organic revenue growth in the mid- to
high-single-digit percentage area for fiscal 2019 and
2020, above our macroeconomic expectations but in
line with broad insurance software IT spending
growth forecasts stemming from an increasing
customer user base and annual price increases;

• Adjusted free operating cash flow to debt in the
low-single-digit percentage area in 2019, and around
4% in 2020.

• Adjusted EBITDA margins of around 40% in 2019, a
500 basis point (bp) decline from 2018 on expenses
related to options issues in 2014 becoming fully
vested in 2019, improving to the mid-40% area in
2020, in line with 2018 levels, as these one-time
expenses roll off.
• Capital expenditures of approximately $13 million;
• Acquisition of TechCanary for approximately $57
million;
• Share repurchases of approximately $60 million; and
• We do not incorporate assumptions about additional
acquisitions or shareholder returns into our forecast
due to uncertainty around timing and sizing.

Company Description
University Park, Ill.-based Applied is one of the leading providers of BMS to the P&C insurance industry through its
TAM and Epic solutions, competing primarily against Vertafore Inc. BMS software automates both agents' and
brokers' day-to-day activities and processes regarding policy and customer relationship management and accounting.
The company also provides data exchange technology needed to connect insurance carriers and agencies via its
IVANS product. Applied's customers are primarily located in the U.S. (77%), Canada (15%), Republic of Ireland (5%),
and the U.K. (3%).

Business Risk: Fair
The company maintains a strong position in the P&C software industry, with close to 40% market share in the BMS
segment. High recurring revenues (mid-80% area), a long tenured customer base (average tenure of 14 years), with
retention rates around 95%, and minimal customer concentration with 14,000 customers, are additional credit

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 4

Applied Systems Inc.

positives. We view the high retention rates as a reflection of the company's mission-critical agency management
solutions to insurance agency business processes, which translate to consistent pricing power and high barriers to
entry. Offsetting these positive factors are our views of the somewhat limited $1 billion total addressable market for
BMS compared with the end markets for other rated software peers within the broader insurance software market,
along with a concentrated product offering within the niche property and casualty insurance software industry. Despite
our view on the total addressable market, we expect the company's revenue will continue to grow in the mid- to
high-single-digit percentage area in fiscal 2020.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
Leverage rose 1.7x to 9.8x for the quarter ended December 2018, due to the $185 million debt funded dividend, though
ongoing growth in revenues and EBITDA had leverage trending slightly lower through the first two quarters of 2019.
However, the company recently indicated that its September quarter will see material expenses related to its sponsor's
decision to repurchase options issued in 2014 that had become fully vested. The added expense will cause fiscal year
end 2019 leverage to rise to around 10x. Nonetheless, as revenues and EBITDA continue to grow organically, along
with improved margins from the favorable revenue mix shift, and as the options expenses roll off over the next 12
months (assuming no further expenses being triggered through additional shareholder returns), we believe leverage
will improve to around the 8x area by fiscal year-end 2020.
Additional debt reduction may arise from an excess cash flow sweep as we forecast significant cash reserves building
up, though we do not include additional debt repayment in our forecast as we believe financial sponsors may use this
cash for other purposes, such as acquisitions or continued shareholder returns. We believe the company has an
aggressive financial policy given the financial sponsor ownership and the three debt-funded dividends since the
October 2016 quarter ($171 dividend in October 2016, $390 dividend in October 2017, $185 million in November
2018), the most recent of which raised leverage to the high-9x area.

Liquidity: Adequate
In our view, Applied has adequate liquidity, with sources of cash likely to exceed uses by 1.2x for the next 12 months.
We also anticipate positive net sources even with a 15% decline in EBITDA.
Despite measurable liquidity sources and uses that may suggest a higher liquidity assessment, we limit our assessment
to adequate. We believe that to absorb a high-impact, low-probability event, the company would most likely require
some refinancing, and that it has satisfactory but not high standing in credit markets.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 5

Applied Systems Inc.

Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Cash balances of $51 million at June 30, 2019;

• Annual capital expenditures near $13 million to $14
million; and

• Expected reported operating cash flow around $40
million in fiscal 2019, and $80 million in 2020; and
• Full availability under the $50 million revolving
credit facility maturing in 2022.

• Mandatory debt amortization of around $12 million
per year.

Debt maturities
As of June 30, 2019, debt maturities were:
• Senior secured first-lien term loan due September 2024: $1.22 billion
• Senior secured second-lien term loan due September 2025: $555 million

Covenant Analysis
Requirements
• The revolving credit facility is subject to an 8x consolidated first-lien debt springing covenant, to be tested when
usage exceeds 35%; and
• There are no financial covenants on the first- or second-lien term loans

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• We estimate that, for the company to default, EBITDA would need to decline significantly as a result of competitor
incursion, with significant pricing pressure and client attrition.
• We have valued the company on a going-concern basis using a 6.5x multiple of our projected emergence EBITDA.
• The valuation multiple is consistent with that of similar companies operating in the enterprise/consumer software
industry

Simulated default assumptions
• Simulated year of default: 2021
• EBITDA at emergence: $134 million
• EBITDA multiple: 6.5x
• LIBOR at default: 2.5%

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 6

Applied Systems Inc.

Simplified waterfall
• Net emergence value (after 5% admin expenses): $825 million
• Obligor/nonobligor valuation split: 80%/20%
• Estimated first-lien claim: $1.281 billion
• Value available for first-lien claim: $795 million
• Recovery range: 50%-70% (rounded estimate 60%)
• Estimated second lien claim: $581 million
• Recovery range: 0%-10% (rounded estimate 5%)

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B-/Stable/--

Business risk: Fair

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Fair
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: b
Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: FS-6 (no additional impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Negative (-1 notch)
Stand-alone credit profile : b-

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Methodology For Linking Long-Term And Short-Term Ratings, April 7, 2017
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 7

Applied Systems Inc.

Dec. 16, 2014
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Technology Software And Services Industry, Nov. 19,
2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Business Risk Profile
Excellent
Strong

Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

Fair

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Satisfactory

Ratings Detail (As Of September 25, 2019)*
Applied Systems Inc.
Issuer Credit Rating

B-/Stable/--

Senior Secured

B-

Senior Secured

CCC

Issuer Credit Ratings History
06-Sep-2017

B-/Stable/--

08-Jan-2014

B/Stable/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 8

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 9

