Keurig Dr Pepper Inc.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Diane M Shand, New York (1) 212-438-7860; diane.shand@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Chris Johnson, CFA, New York (1) 212-438-1433; chris.johnson@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Environmental, Social, And Governance
Issue Ratings - Subordination Risk Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 1

Keurig Dr Pepper Inc.
Business Risk: STRONG

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

bbb

bbb

bbb

BBB/Stable/A-2

Financial Risk: SIGNIFICANT
Highly leveraged

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key strengths

Key risks

Solid market positions in categories with good growth trends.

High leverage because of largely debt financed merger in 2018.

Benefits from product diversification as well as a comprehensive
distribution network.

Limited geographic diversity compared to global beverage and food peers.

Greater negotiating power with retailers and suppliers post
merger because of increased scale and diversity.

Distant third market position in cold beverages.

Strong cash flow because of high margins, low dividend payout,
and capital expenditure.

Need to increase household penetration of brewers as growth in single-serve
coffee category has slowed and is under pricing pressure.

KDP continues to generate solid performance in its coffee business.
KDP's volume grew 13% for k-cups pods and 19% for brewers with total volume/mix growth of 8.3% in the second
quarter 2019. In part, the strength was because of advanced shipments. Excluding advanced shipments, the company's
coffee business is growing at a mid-single-digit growth rate, which is in line with the industry. KDP remains the
dominant manufacturer with dollar market share of 81.6% in single-serve coffee pods.

Changes in its Allied Brands portfolio is affecting the packaged beverage segment.
The beverage business sales declined 3% in the second quarter pro forma for the merger. The decline is largely
attributable to the shift in the mix of its allied brands portfolio with the ramping up of evian, Peet's and FORTO and the
exit of the established FIJI and BODYARMOR businesses last year. We believe the allied brand business will have less
of an impact in the second half of 2019. Over the past year, the company has signed eight new allied and partner
agreements.

KDP has industry-leading margins.
The pro forma EBITDA margin has expanded to 31% in the first half of 2019 from the mid-20% range in the first half of
2018, largely on productivity and merger synergies. This compares favorably to PepsiCo's EBITDA margin of 20.1%
and Molson Coors 20.7% as well as packaged goods peers such as General Mills, J.M. Smucker, Conagra, Campbell,
and McCormick which generate EBITDA margins in the low-20% range. The Coca-Cola Co.'s (Coke) EBITDA margin

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 2

Keurig Dr Pepper Inc.

of 34.8% in 2018 is the highest and is attributable to its large scale and asset-light business model.

Expanding margins and strong cash flow will drive rapid de-leveraging.
Pro forma for the merger, KDP's leverage was 5.0x in the trailing 12 months ending June 30, 2019, down from 5.8x at
the close of the transaction. Its net adjusted debt is down $900 million since Sept. 30, 2018 (our adjusted debt includes
the $595 million of structured payables). We forecast a decline in leverage to the low-4.0x area by year-end 2019 and
to the mid-3x area in 2020 through a combination of debt paydown and EBITDA growth. In addition, we forecast that
it will generate $2.2 billion of discretionary cash flow in 2019 and $1.4 billion in 2020, up from pro forma $1.2 billion in
2018.

Outlook: Stable

The stable rating outlook on Keurig Dr Pepper Inc. (KDP) reflects S&P Global Ratings' expectations that it will
continue to grow earnings and cash flows and rapidly reduce leverage. We believe the company will generate lowto mid-single-digit top-line growth and maintain the EBITDA margins over 30%. We forecast it will generate $2.2
billion in discretionary cash flow in 2019 and $1.4 billion in 2020. This should enable the company to deleverage to
the mid-3x area within two years of the close of the merger.

Downside scenario
We could lower the ratings if KDP is unable to reduce leverage below 4x by 2020 due to an inability to achieve its
anticipated cost cutting, operating performance deterioration (possibility because of changing consumer tastes and
preferences or a severe recession), or if management's financial policies become more aggressive, resulting in the
inability to improve profitability and reduce debt in line with our base-case forecast. This results in leverage that
remains above 4x and a substantial drop in discretionary cash flow.

Upside scenario
While unlikely over the next two years considering its current leverage, we could raise the ratings if the company is
able to reduce debt using its strong cash flow and demonstrates EBITDA improvement by increasing operating
efficiencies and achieving $600 million in planned synergies, resulting in EBITDA margins expanding close to 35%.
This should lead to a decline in leverage to below 3.0x. In addition, we would expect that management would
adhere to a financial policy consistent with maintaining leverage below 3x.

Our Base-Case Scenario
We forecast KDP will continue to benefit from consumer demand for non-cola carbonated and distilled beverages and
single-service coffee. We believe its national distribution capabilities will support revenue growth and inflation would
be more than offset by its productivity programs and increasing prices of its cold beverages.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 3

Keurig Dr Pepper Inc.

Assumptions

• U.S. GDP growth of 2.5% in 2019, 1.8% in 2020, and
Canada GDP growth of 1.2% in 2019 and 1.7% in
2020.
• Sales growth for its cold beverages to be up 1% in
2019 below GDP growth, reflecting the loss of FIJI
and BODYARMOR businesses. Thereafter, we
believe the business will grow 2% in line with GDP.
Hot beverage revenue grows 3.5% in 2019 above
economic growth because of strong sales of coffee
machines and advanced shipments. In 2020, coffee
sales grow 1.5%, slightly below economic growth.
During this period, we believe the company's
volume will be up but that its strategy to reduce
prices to increase household penetration will
partially offset volume gains. In addition, coffee mix
will be unfavorable as we believe its lower-priced
private label products will outpace sales of its
premium brands.

Key Metrics

2018P 2019E
30-31

2020E

EBITDA margin (%)

28.4

Debt to EBITDA (x)

5.4

4-4.5 3.5-4.0

32-33

DCF to debt (%)

7.3

10-15

15-20

• The EBITDA margin expands to 30% in 2019, up
from pro forma 28.4% in 2018. We believe the
margin will rise to roughly 31.5% in 2020 and
approach 35% in 2023, reflecting a $600 million
benefit from cost-savings initiatives and synergies.
Productivity improvements will more than offset the
negative shift in price/mix in its coffee business.
• Cash flow benefits from a working capital inflow of
$1.1 billion in 2019 from a combination of accounts
receivable, accounts payable, and inventory
management as well as depreciation and
amortization exceeding capital expenditures.
• Capex of around $250 million in 2019 and 2020.
• Dividends of roughly $850 million annually in 2019
and 2020.
• No share repurchases and limited mergers and
acquisitions (M&A) activity.
• Discretionary free cash flow totaling $2.2 billion in
2019 and $1.4 billion in 2020 compared with $1.2
billion in 2018, and is applied to debt reduction.
• Adjusted debt decreases by $2.1 billion in 2019
compared with year-end 2018 and by $1.4 billion in
2020 compared with year-end 2019

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 4

Keurig Dr Pepper Inc.

Base-case projections
KDP's well-diversified cold and hot beverage portfolio offers steady organic growth.We forecast the company can
grow organic sales by roughly 2% annually over the next five years because of its above-average volume growth in
several brands across its carbonated, non-carbonated, and its large and diverse single-serve coffee portfolio.
KDP's margins continue to improve because of synergies and its on-going cost savings programs. We expect roughly
half of the $600 million run-rate savings to come from reducing selling, general, and administrative (SG&A) expenses, a
third from cost of goods sold (COGS), and the remainder from distribution. As a percent of Dr Pepper Snapple's 2017
revenues, deal synergies are about 9%, which is modestly above the 8.5% median of large transactions in the global
consumer products industry between 2000 and 2017.

Company Description
Keurig Dr Pepper Inc. is a major beverage company in North America with a diverse portfolio of flavored (non-cola)
carbonated soft drinks (CSDs), specialty coffee and non-carbonated beverages (NCBs), and the number one
single-serve coffee brewing system in North America. KDP has a national distribution system that enables its portfolio
of more than 125 owned, licensed, and partner brands to be available to the consumer. Its coffee business is modestly
more profitable than its cold beverage business.

Business Risk: Strong
KDP is a formidable competitor in the beverage industry. KDP is the number one player in the North American
single-serve coffee sector and holds the number three position in the North American liquid refreshment beverage
industry. We expect single-serve coffee to be the fastest-growing segment of the coffee market and non-flavored
carbonated beverages to grow faster than the overall carbonated beverage market. We expect the company to grow
organic sales roughly 2% annually over the next three years. We believe its diversified portfolio of hot and cold
beverages and single-serve hot coffee should enable it to generate stable sales and profit growth.
On the cold beverage side, the company has very defendable market positions given the strength of its core and
difficult-to-replicate Dr Pepper brand, customer loyalty, and favorable demographic trend across many of its flavored
carbonated drinks (including the fast-growing Penafiel brand in Mexico), and its strong brands in non-carbonated
drinks (including Motts and the Bai water brands). Moreover, its core CSD business does not have a lot of overlap with
its large competitors, Coke and Pepsi. Its strategy is to focus on categories where there is fragmentation. The North
America soft drink category is large at $118 billion in 2019 according to Euromonitor. Industry sales should grow at a
low-single-digit rate annually over the next five years because of price mix and volume increases of non-carbonated
drinks despite an expected low-single-digit volume decline of carbonated beverages.
The non-cola flavored carbonated market has been growing faster than the cola market and KDP's portfolio has
benefited from the strength of its Dr Pepper and Canada Dry brands. According to Euromonitor, off-premise retail
sales in the North American carbonated beverage market declined around 1%-2% annually for the past 12 years and
this trend is expected to continue over the next five years because of consumers' shift toward drinks with less sugar
content and energy drinks. However, trends in non-cola have outpaced the industry and the segment is expected to

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 5

Keurig Dr Pepper Inc.

grow at 1%-2% annually. The Dr Pepper brands' market share increased to 19.1% in 2018, up from 16.1% in 2005
which compares favorably to Coke's flat share and a 6 point decline in PepsiCo's . We attribute this to the difficult to
replicate taste of its Dr Pepper brand and popularity of its Canada Dry brands as mixers in alcoholic beverages.
We believe KDP will also benefit from its non-carbonated drinks portfolio. The company should be able to compete in
the water segment which is the second-largest segment of the soft drink market and has better growth prospects given
consumers' shift toward healthier beverages. KDP purchased Bai in 2017 and Core in 2018 and signed a long-term
distribution agreement with Dannon Water to sell, distribute, and merchandise Evian in North America. Nestles is the
clear leader in the category with its portfolio of water brands commanding a 21.2% share of the industry. Coke is the
next largest player with its water brands having a 8.4% share and PepsiCo has a 7.2% water brand market share. Still,
the category is very fragmented with no individual brand having more than a 9% share and the majority of brands
having less than a 1% share. Evian currently has 0.5% share of the market. KDP has an advantage over smaller and
regional brands given its national distribution capabilities. We expect KDP to build on the premium water segment as
well as other faster-growing categories such as sport and energy, RTD tea, and coffee. Although it is a small player in
the fast-growing energy segment, we consider it a major participant given consumers' use of coffee as an energy lifter.
Overall, we believe KDP's cold beverages will continue to gain share because of its focus on non-cola beverages, its
water offerings, its RTD Peet's coffee, and its allied brands.
KDP has the number one position in the single-serve coffee segment in North America. It is successful because it has
lots of brands and large distribution. The North American coffee market is large with $15.5 billion of sales (excluding
retail coffee shops), according to Euromonitor. The U.S. single-serve coffee market should grow at a 4% compounded
annual rate through 2023 outpacing category growth of about 2.5%. Single-serve volume per pound share of total
coffee is 11.2% in North America in 2018, and has been driving the overall coffee market growth. Single-serve share
was 39% in 2018 on a dollar basis in North America, up from 2% in 2008. The significantly higher dollar share reflects
the segment's higher price point compared with those of other coffee segments. The single-serve price per cup is less
than 50 cents, compared to premium roast and ground, which is 11 cents; mainstream, at four cents; and instant, at
three cents. We expect KDP to grow in-line with the market because of its large market share, vast stable of brands,
and broad distribution. The company's dollar share of pods manufactured by KDP in the U.S. was 82% in 2018. In
recent years, category growth has slowed because the market is maturing, pricing initiatives by KDP to bring down the
cost to consumer to gain household penetration, an increase in lower-priced private label, and environmental
sustainability concerns. The category is also facing competition from cold brew coffee as it offers the same
convenience as single-serve coffee which is a key demand driver. Moreover, millennials drink more cold coffee than
hot. We believe KDP competes in the in RTD coffee market with its Peet's RTD offering.
Given its large share, KDP will need to grow household penetration. Household penetration increased to 22% in 2018
up from 17% in 2015. There is still plenty of room for growth given there is 128 million households in the U.S. and 89
million at home coffee drinkers. Household penetration in France is 65% and is 63% in the Netherlands. We think the
company can increase household penetration in the U.S because it has reduced the price of pods to broaden its
customer base, improved the brewers, invested in advertising, and upgraded in-store displays for brewers. The
company's pods in Canada are 100% recyclable and within the next 18 months all of its pods in the U.S. will be
recyclable. This should also help increase household penetration among environmentally conscious consumers.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 6

Keurig Dr Pepper Inc.

On the hot coffee side, KDP competes against large brands with deep financial resources such as Kraft Foods' Maxwell
House and The J.M. Smucker Co.'s Folgers, as well as coffee retailers such as Starbucks and Dunkin' Brands. In the
single-cup coffee segment, the company competes against companies such as Nestle, which is the global category
leader with about $12 billion in sales. KDP also competes against coffees and teas sold through supermarkets, club
stores, mass merchants, specialty retailers, and food service accounts. In single-serve, KDP has a competitive
advantage, as it controls innovation on brewers and pods, and has multiyear strategic relationships with Starbucks,
Dunkin' Donuts, Kraft-Heinz, Smucker, Eight O' Clock Coffee, and others. The company has more than 100 brands in
its system, including 18 of the top 20 brands, which creates a significant competitive advantage because no other
single-serve system offers more choices for consumers. We believe KDP will maintain a very strong share in the U.S.
and Canada markets because of its history of success at developing innovative products. In the U.S., according to the
company, its share is 82%. Its new brewer innovation pipeline and marketing initiatives should enable it to gain
additional share.

Peer comparison
KDP has several close beverage peers including Coke and PepsiCo. Both Coke and PEP are clearly larger and have
greater product and geographic diversity.
PepsiCo's and Coke's credit protection measures are stronger than KDP's. KDP'S business strengths comparable to
that of Molson Coors and Bacardi, but it has more product diversification and higher margins. KDP's discretionary cash
flow to total debt is higher than all of the peers we've mentioned except for Molson Coors which is similar to KDP's.
In comparison to its packaged goods peers, KDP should be rated the same as J.M. Smucker, General Mills, and
Kellogg. These peers have similar business risks given their leading market positions, diverse brand and product
portfolios, good margins, and cash flow generation. In addition, these peers generate the majority of their sales in the
U.S. KDP competes directly with J.M. Smucker in the coffee category. KDP's discretionary cash flow to total debt is
higher than all of these peers.

Financial Risk: Significant
Although KDP's leverage following the Dr Pepper acquisition is high with debt to EBITDA currently 5x, we forecast
swift and significant deleveraging over the next two years. The company is steadily improving cash flow, prioritizing
debt repayment and has no plans to increase its currently modest shareholder returns. We believe KDP will delever to
3.0x by 2021 given its strong discretionary cash flow. We estimate the ratio of discretionary cash flow to adjusted debt
will be strong at around 15% in 2019 and 11% in 2020, and consider this a key factor in our ratings. We expect the
company to repay debt of more than $2.0 billion in 2019 (including structured payables of $595 million) and more than
$1.0 billion annually in 2020 and 2021. Our forecast assumes no share repurchases and expect M&A activity to be
leverage neutral during the forecast period. The company has shown a willingness to use equity to finance acquisitions
(i.e., Core).
KDP generates strong cash flow given its high margins. Moreover its capital investment needs are low because its
manufacturing facilities are relatively new compared to its competitors and its dividend payout is also low compared
with its peer group. Its depreciation and amortization expense will exceed its capital expenditures through 2023. KDP's

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 7

Keurig Dr Pepper Inc.

cash flow will also benefit from strong working capital improvement through a combination of better management of
accounts receivables and payables as well as inventories. In 2019, we believe the company will repay debt through a
combination of working capital gains and EBITDA growth; thereafter, debt paydown will occur predominantly through
EBITDA growth. We do not expect the company's accounts-payable days to exceed 150 days at year-end 2019. Its
accounts-payable days are currently 125 days and we believe the industry norm is around 120 days. Adding 30 days
payable to debt, KDP's leverage would be in about 4.5x at year-end 2019 compared to our 4.4x estimate. We note that
a portion of transportation and warehousing as well as advertising and promotion expense that are included in SG&A
on the income statement are included in accounts payable.

Liquidity: Adequate
In our assessment, the company's liquidity is adequate, reflecting our expectation that projected sources will cover
uses by 1.5x over the next 12 months. We expect sources will continue exceeding uses even if forecast EBITDA
declines by 30%. Although the company's ratio of sources to uses would qualify for a more favorable liquidity
assessment, we believe the company could not absorb high-impact, low-probability events without refinancing. Neither
do we view the company's financial risk management as sustainable for strong liquidity given its high leverage. That
said, we believe the company has a strong standing in the credit markets, strong relationships with its banks, and
EBITDA cushion over 15% on its debt-to-EBITDA covenant.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Cash of about $106 million at June 30, 2019;

• Debt maturities and amortization of more than $400
million in 2019 and 2020;

• Total availability under its $2.4 billion revolving
credit facility maturing 2023 and $750 million 364
day facility;
• Funds from operations (FFO) of more than $2
billion; and

• Seasonal working capital requirement over $100
million;
• Capex $250 million in 2019; and
• Dividends roughly $850 million in 2019.

• Working capital inflow of more than $1.1 billion in
the trailing twelve months ending Dec. 31, 2019.

Debt maturities
June 30, 2019
• 2019: $ 350 million
• 2020: $ 350 million
• 2021: $2,350 million
• 2022: $ 3350 million
• 2023: $3,885 million

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 8

Keurig Dr Pepper Inc.

• Thereafter: $6,725 million

Covenant Analysis
Compliance expectations
We forecast KDP will maintain a covenant cushion above 15% over the next two years. This calculation includes pro
forma synergies.

Requirements
The company is subject to maintenance financial covenants under its senior unsecured revolver,364 day credit facility,
and term loan executed in 2019. The company is subject to a leverage ratio of 5.5x until June 30, 2019, and tightens to
5.0x beginning Sept. 30, 2019, 4.5x beginning June 30, 2020, and 4.0x beginning March 31, 2021.

Environmental, Social, And Governance

Ongoing changing consumer tastes away from traditional carbonated soft drinks and societal efforts to reduce the
sugar content of beverages as governments seek to combat obesity has reduced demand for sugary soft drinks. In
response to these social changes, KDP continues to invest in diversifying its portfolio to offset declining demand in
the U.S. away from carbonated soft drink consumption to categories like premium water, sports, and energy. This
strategy has yielded better than industry average organic sales growth while improving the portfolio mix toward
faster-growing, more socially acceptable offerings.
KDP so far has not been materially affected by governmental efforts to curb sugar consumptions via taxation.
These efforts tend to only temporarily reduce sales and consumption, but sales typically rebound closer to
historical levels once the full-year impact of the tax gets lapped. For example, Mexico enacted a sugar tax in 2014
and consumption did fall in the subsequent year, but stabilized thereafter.
The global anti-plastic movement is an inherent environmental risk factor. KDP is focusing on using fully recycled
products to manufacture its packaging to reduce its carbon footprint and energy usage. The company's coffee pods
are 100% recyclable in Canada and within the next 18 months its pods in the U.S. will all be recyclable. The
modest capex requirements and cost saving of increasing recycled inputs should not compromise KDP's strong
free cash flow generation.

Issue Ratings - Subordination Risk Analysis
Capital structure
KDP's capital structure consists of senior unsecured debt, all of which is issued at the Keurig Dr Pepper level. The
company has no secured debt or priority subsidiary debt.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 9

Keurig Dr Pepper Inc.

Analytical conclusions
KDP's unsecured debt is rated 'BBB', the same as the issuer credit rating, because we believe that any subordination
risk that may exist is not significant enough to warrant a notch down.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
BBB/Stable/A-2

Business risk: Strong

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Low
Financial risk: Significant

• Cash flow/Leverage: Significant
Anchor: bbb
Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: Neutral (no impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Satisfactory (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)
Stand-alone credit profile : bbb

Related Criteria
• Guidance | Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, April 1, 2019
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Reflecting Subordination Risk In Corporate Issue Ratings, March 28, 2018
• General Criteria: Methodology For Linking Long-Term And Short-Term Ratings, April 7, 2017
• Criteria | Corporates | Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Branded Nondurables Industry, May 7, 2015
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate
Issuers, Dec. 16, 2014
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 10

Keurig Dr Pepper Inc.

• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Business Risk Profile

Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly leveraged

Excellent

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Ratings Detail (As Of September 6, 2019)*
Keurig Dr Pepper Inc.
Issuer Credit Rating

BBB/Stable/A-2

Commercial Paper
Local Currency

A-2

Senior Secured

BBB

Senior Unsecured

BBB

Issuer Credit Ratings History
14-May-2018

BBB/Stable/A-2

29-Jan-2018

BBB+/Watch Neg/A-2

13-Nov-2013

BBB+/Stable/A-2

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 11

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 12

