Decathlon S.A.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Solene Van Eetvelde, Paris (33) 1-4420-6684; solene.van.eetvelde@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Abigail Klimovich, CFA, London (44) 20-7176-3554; abigail.klimovich@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Environmental, Social, And Governance
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 1

Decathlon S.A.
Credit Highlights
Issuer Credit Rating
--/--/A-2

Overview
Key Strengths

Key Risks

Market leader in the sporting goods industry in France,
Spain, and Italy, with an increasing presence in China.

Lower profitability than other integrated specialty retailers.

Vertically integrated business model that underpins value
pricing and allows for merchandising flexibility.

Exposure to discretionary demand for athletic goods.

Successful track record of positive like-for-like growth since
2005, except for 2018.

Mounting online competition with brands going direct-to-consumer.

Historically strong credit metrics with low leverage.

High amount of capital expenditure (capex) to finance international expansion and
transformation plan, which constrains free operating cash flow (FOCF).

Decathlon's positive trading momentum is poised for recovery after weak results in 2018, but profitability will likely
remain sub-par. In 2018, Decathlon reported negative like-for-like sales growth and a 13% EBITDA decline, explained
by disruption from the group's recent initiatives to enlarge the assortment, replace international brands with the private
labels, and adapt the supply chain to e-commerce. This has affected product availability in stores, essentially in France,
Spain, and Italy, where the group generates more than 50% of its revenues. In addition, Decathlon suffered from poor
market conditions and customer sentiment in France during the winter holiday season because of the yellow vests
protests. Lagging online proposition in China, where it generates more than 10% of its sales, also weighed on its
results. However, in the first half of 2019, Decathlon restored positive trading momentum. We believe that the
slowdown of its international expansion in future years will also support its earnings growth by reducing the margin
dilution coming from recently opened stores. Yet, we anticipate that its adjusted EBITDA margin will remain in the
low end of the 10%-16% range that we consider as average for the sector.
Decathlon may face challenges in some of its markets like China. We see rapidly mounting online competition in the
apparel retail sector. This is particularly true in countries like China, where quickly changing consumer preferences
and the adoption of new technologies accelerate the structural shift from stores to e-commerce. In addition, we see
brands heightening the online competition as they tend more and more to reach their customers directly through their
own websites.
In the coming few years, Decathlon's cash flows will remain hampered by ongoing investments in the digital
transformation that are necessary for the group's competitive edge.With only 7.5% of its revenues generated online,
Decathlon's operating expenses and capex on its digital transformation (encompassing for instance the adaptation of
its supply chain and logistics platforms, and progress in customer data collection) will rise in order to maintain a
competitive edge. In addition, we believe that its FOCF will remain intrinsically lower than peers', because Decathlon
is vertically integrated across development, production, and distribution. The group therefore bears more inventory
than pure retailers.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 2

Decathlon S.A.

Our Base-Case Scenario
Assumptions

• Macroeconomic factors that influence the sports
goods industry include GDP growth, consumer
confidence, CPI inflation, discretionary income, and
the unemployment rate. Our assumptions for
Decathlon reflect economic scenarios for France,
Spain, Italy, and China, which together accounted
for more than 65% of Decathlon's revenue in 2018.
• GDP growth in 2019 and 2020 of, respectively, 1.4%
and 1.5% in France, 2.1% and 1.9% in Spain, 0.1%
and 0.6% in Italy, and 6.2% in China.

Key Metrics

2018A
Debt/EBITDA (x)*
FFO/debt (%)*
FOCF/debt (%)*
DCF (mil. €)

2019E 2020E

1.8

1.7

1.6

41.7

~45.0

~45.0

2.7

~20.0

~20.0

(430) (25)-(35)

40-50

*As adjusted by S&P Global Ratings. FFO--Funds from
operations. DCF--Discretionary cash flow. A--Actual.
E--Estimate.

• Revenue growth of about 7%-8% in 2019 and 2020,
reflecting continuous, albeit slower, international
expansion in high-growth markets, and 0%-2%
like-for-like growth in mature European markets,
driven by volume.
• S&P Global Ratings-adjusted EBITDA margin to
increase by about 10-20 basis points per year, from
12.4% in 2018, supported by the group's positive
sales trend but tempered by its continued focus on
product and process innovation, and spending
related to its transformation plan.
• A reduction in inventory from the peak reached at
the end of 2018, supported by positive trading
momentum and strict inventory management. We
anticipate that it will translate into minimal working
capital outflows in 2019 and 2020, down from
negative €362 million in 2018.
• Average capex of €600 million-€650 million on
average in 2019-2020, in line with the group's
international expansion plan, and including
transformation-related spending on IT and logistics.
• Limited acquisitions and stable distributions to
shareholders.

Base-case projections
We expect Decathlon's cash flow generation to improve from the low point of 2018. Earnings decline and inventory
build-up led to negative FOCF of €210 million and a 0.3x releveraging in 2018, and to 1.8x adjusted debt to EBITDA
from 1.5x the previous year. We forecast an improvement in cash flow generation over the next two years, supported

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 3

Decathlon S.A.

by positive trading momentum, a modest rise in margins, and strict inventory management.
Still, hefty investments in digital transformation and stable shareholder remuneration will only permit modest
deleveraging in 2019-2020. We forecast Decathlon's discretionary cash flow will be close to zero in 2019 and 2020. We
consequently anticipate only modest deleveraging of 0.1x per year over the period, driven essentially by some
earnings growth.

Company Description
Decathlon is one of the largest athletic footwear and apparel, and sports equipment retailers globally, with a 3.7%
market share worldwide and a 17% market share in the French sports apparel market. It has leading positions in
France, Spain, Italy, and Belgium, as well as a growing presence in China. In 2018, its network expanded to 1,511
stores from 1,352 in 2017, spanning 51 countries. Decathlon generates about 70% of its revenues outside France, and
around 88% of sales come from in-house brands covering 65 different sports. In 2018, Decathlon reported sales of
about €11.3 billion and EBITDA of about €1.0 billion.

Business Risk
Decathlon's unique feature among global branded athletic goods manufacturers is its vertically integrated business
model, combining development, production, and distribution via its own store network and e-commerce platform. We
believe that Decathlon's leading share of the athletic goods market in mature European markets, increasing presence in
high-growth emerging markets, consistently low-price strategy, and integrated business model will support its
competitive position in the medium term and underpin earnings growth, notwithstanding its lower profitability than
other specialty apparel retailers.

Integrated business model
We view the company's vertically integrated business model as ratings positive. It provides autonomy over pricing and
merchandising decisions, and enables the company to maintain low prices in the fragmented and highly competitive
sporting goods market. Decathlon has direct control of its costs and the quality of its products, including sourcing of
some raw materials, research and development, and sale of products in its stores, while production is outsourced to a
diverse network of contractors.
Although competitive pricing provides a buffer against the discretionary nature of spending on athletic apparel and
economic cycles, Decathlon has lower EBITDA margin than other apparel and specialty retailers. In addition, it
remains exposed to the highly price-competitive, fashion-sensitive, and discretionary nature of the apparel retail
market. Overall, the European retail market remains one of the most competitive in Europe.
By investing 4%-5% of sales every year on product and process innovation, Decathlon has contained the impact of
competitive prices on margins. What's more, the integrated business model enables the company to respond quickly to
evolving consumer tastes, and align its merchandising strategy. The group has consistently reported positive
like-for-like sales growth across the board, with the exception of 2018 when as it temporarily suffered from the
disruption of its store transformation program in mature countries.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 4

Decathlon S.A.

Established leader in France and Southern Europe, while gaining ground in emerging markets
A competitive pricing strategy has enabled Decathlon to have a leading position and continue to expanding its revenue
base in its domestic market, France, as well as in Spain, Italy, and Belgium, despite high saturation and the maturity of
these markets.
We expect China and India, among other emerging markets, to be the main drivers of earnings growth due to the low
saturation and favorable macroeconomic and demographic trends. We anticipate the final consumption contribution to
economic growth in China to steadily increase over the next three years. This, coupled with an increasing middle class
and rising health consciousness, will boost demand for athletic footwear and apparel. Leveraging on its price
competiveness, the company's strategy is to increase the share of sales from China to 22% by 2022 from about 12% in
2016. However, we believe that Decathlon may face increasing challenges in China if it does no expand its online
proposition quickly enough to meet customers' expectations.
Decathlon lags the global athletic wear manufacturers, such as Nike and Adidas, in terms of marketing expenditure.
This results in lower brand equity and awareness compared with the international premium brand competitors.
Nevertheless, despite price competiveness, Decathlon enjoys relatively strong brand recognition in France, its core
market with the longest track record.

Financial Risk
The financial risk profile reflects a modest level of financial debt, high operating leases that constitute more than 60%
of S&P Global Ratings-adjusted debt, and the impact of Decathlon's growth and transformation program on near-term
FOCF. We expect adjusted debt to EBITDA to remain near 1.6x-1.7x in 2019 and 2020, reflecting our expectations of
recovering operating performance, sound operating cash flow generation, and organic international expansion
financed within the limits of operating cash flow, coupled with a prudent shareholder remuneration policy. Given the
limited debt burden and low interest expense, we expect funds from operations to debt to remain close to 45%.
We believe that continuous international expansion and transformation capex on IT and logistics will strain FOCF
generation, and we expect adjusted FOCF to debt to remain close to 20% and 25% in 2019 and 2020, respectively.
Our base-case scenario does not include any major increase in shareholder remuneration or acquisitions that would
lead to a material deviation in our adjusted credit metrics for the company. This reflects our understanding of the
prudent financial policy favored by Decathlon's main shareholders, which has supported consistently strong credit
metrics.

Liquidity
Our short-term rating on Decathlon is 'A-2'. We assess the group's liquidity as adequate, reflecting our view that its
liquidity sources will exceed its funding needs by slightly over 1.2x over the 12 months to Dec. 31, 2019. This is
supported by our anticipation that Decathlon's working capital requirement will decrease from the peak reached at the
end of 2018, but constrained by its vertical integration that increases its inventory burden.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 5

Decathlon S.A.

Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Cash and cash equivalents of about €735 million as
of Dec. 31, 2018, of which about €90 million is not
available for debt repayment.

• About €615 million of short-term maturities, of
which €490 million under the commercial paper
program.

• About €543 million of undrawn committed lines
maturing beyond 12 months. The group currently
has a total of €905 million of committed credit
facilities that are regularly rolled over.

• About €500 million of working capital funding of the
intra-year peak requirement.

• Around €850 million of funds from operation.

• About €250 million of maintenance capex.
• Our forecast of about €220 million dividends, in line
with the historical trend.

Covenant Analysis
Decathlon has two covenants in place: Solvency and gearing. Both covenants have comfortable headroom.

Environmental, Social, And Governance

We currently do not anticipate ESG factors to materially influence Decathlon's credit quality. However, given the
nature of the products and its vertical integration from sourcing of raw material to distribution, Decathlon is
exposed to important global topics including sustainability of the resources (especially carbon emissions and waste
from product packaging and unsold goods), product safety and brand perception. As a sports good retailer,
Decathlon is well placed to optimize consumers' steady movement toward healthier lifestyles.
We also factor governance into our rating. Decathlon is a private company and is therefore subject to less stringent
disclosure rules vis-à-vis its financial partners. We view positively the management's expertise combined with its
track record of above-average growth rates.

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, July 1, 2019
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, April 1, 2019
• General Criteria: Methodology For Linking Long-Term And Short-Term Ratings, April 7, 2017
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate
Issuers, Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria | Corporates | Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Retail And Restaurants Industry, Nov. 19, 2013

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 6

Decathlon S.A.

• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Ratings Detail (As Of September 11, 2019)*
Decathlon S.A.
Issuer Credit Rating

--/--/A-2

Commercial Paper
Local Currency

A-2

Issuer Credit Ratings History
10-May-2016

--/--/A-2

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

Additional Contact:
Industrial Ratings Europe; Corporate_Admin_London@spglobal.com

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 7

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 8

