Orange Cogen Funding Corp.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Marianne Du, Toronto (1) 416-507-2543; marianne.du@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
David L Lum, San Francisco + 1 (415) 371 5013; david.lum@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Project Description
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Performance Update
Base Case
Downside Case
Peer Comparison
Rating Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 1

Orange Cogen Funding Corp.
Credit Rating(s)
Senior Secured
US$110 mil 8.175% sr secd bnds due 03/15/2022
Local Currency

BBB+/Stable

Senior Secured

BBB+/Stable

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country.

Project Description
Orange Cogen Funding Corp. is a subsidiary of Orange Cogeneration L.P., the owner of a 104-megawatt (MW)
gas-fired cogeneration power plant in Bartow, Fla., that entered commercial operation in 1992. Orange Cogeneration is
wholly owned by Northern Star Generation LLC through subsidiary NSG Holdings LLC. Since the supplemental power
purchase agreement (PPA) with Tampa Electric Co. expired in 2015, Orange Cogen sells 100% of its electricity under a
PPA with Duke Energy Florida LLC (DEF; A-/Negative/A-2) that expires in 2025. The project also sells steam to
off-takers Peace River and Bartow Ethanol Co. above the requirement to maintain qualifying facility status.
The project has entered fuel contracts with Chevron Corp. (AA/Stable/A-1+) and a long-term service agreement
(LTSA) with General Electric Co. (GE; BBB+/Stable/A-2).

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key strengths

Key risks

PPA and fuel-supply agreements with investment-grade-rated entities that
run beyond debt maturity

Mismatch between PPA index of energy revenues and the facility's
cost of fuel

Cash flow stability with most revenues from capacity payments

Rating capped by that on Deutsche Bank Trust Co. Americas, the
project’s bank account counterparty

An established operating and financial history with strong debt service
coverage ratios and availabilities
LTSA with GE that mitigates availability risk

The project benefits from agreements with highly rated counterparties that run beyond the debt
maturity--PPA agreement with DEF and fuel-supply agreement with Chevron.
DEF is the sole revenue counterparty through the PPA. The rating on it caps the project rating regardless of the
project's operational performance, because we base our analysis on the project's reliance on DEF's payments to
maintain facility operations and pay debt service.

The project has a strong track record of meeting the availability requirement under the PPA and
earning full capacity payments, which account for about 80% of its total revenue.
Capacity payments are based on the project's total capacity of 104 MW and capacity reservation rates defined under
the PPA. Full capacity payments are subject to the project achieving a 12-month rolling capacity factor (RCF) of 90%.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 2

Orange Cogen Funding Corp.

The project has a strong operational track record of achieving the RCF requirement and thus earned full capacity
payments. The full capacity payments are more than sufficient to cover the fixed expenses and debt service through
debt maturity. Failure to meet the 90% target would result in availability penalties. However, the project has entered
an LTSA and lease engine programs with GE, which mitigate availability risks.

Although fully contracted, the project is exposed to market risk due to a mismatch between the PPA
energy payments index, mostly based on coal prices, and the project's fuel expenses, which are based
on natural gas prices.
The project's energy payments are based on the SNL coal price and transportation costs, while its fuel expenses are
based on natural gas prices. Therefore, the project is exposed to low coal prices and high natural gas prices. The
mismatch resulted in negative energy margins until 2016, when natural gas prices plunged and the margins turned
positive.

The rating is weak-linked to that on the project's bank account counterparty, Deutsche Bank Trust
Co. Americas (BBB+/Stable/A-2).
The linkage is because the replacement provision in the project agreement does not fully comply with our financial
counterparty criteria in that it does not specify a minimum eligible rating. Including replacement commitment
language in the bond documents would be a possible mitigating factor. Otherwise, the project's operation itself is
consistent with our 'a-' assessment, reflecting robust coverage throughout our forecast and the creditworthiness of its
off-taker DEF.

Outlook

The stable outlook reflects our expectation that operational and financial performance will remain stable during
our two-year outlook period. We expect the project to achieve debt service coverage ratios (DSCRs) above 3.63x
throughout the debt's term.

Downside scenario
We could lower the rating on the project's debt if the ratings on the project's PPA off-taker or financial
counterparty fall below 'BBB+'. We could also lower the rating if operating performance were to deteriorate such
that we forecast sustained DSCRs at the lower end of the 1.75x-2.50x range, which we believe is unlikely in our
two-year outlook period unless a catastrophic major failure happens.

Upside scenario
We could raise the rating on the project's debt if we raise the rating on the financial counterparty above 'BBB+' and
our operational expectations and base-case financial forecast do not change because the project's operating
performance is consistent with our 'a-' assessment.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 3

Orange Cogen Funding Corp.

Performance Update
• The project executed an amendment to the PPA with DEF in November 2018. The amendment specifies a new coal
cost index for energy payments. The new index is based on the SNL coal price and transportation costs; it replaced
the original index based on the project's reference plants, Crystal River Units 1 and 2, both of which were retired.
We expect the new index will have very limited cash flow impact on the project; therefore, we view this contract
amendment as credit neutral. In addition, the project's cash flow is not sensitive to energy payments, because they
represent only about 20% of total project revenues.
• The project's net generation in 2018 was 410,701 megawatt hours (MWh), slightly lower than 440,912 MWh in
2017. During the fall outage in 2018, a borescope inspection found a burned area in the stage 1 nozzle section in one
of the gas turbines. GE has authorized continued operation but the project cut back certain hours as a precaution,
which led to lower generation in 2018. This engine was swapped out at the end of March 2019 and the plant is
running normally again.
• That said, the project still received full capacity payments with a rolling 12-month capacity factor of about 93% in
2018, above the PPA requirement of 90%.
• The project maintained its status as a qualifying facility, with operating and efficiency standards of 5.8% and 47.2%,
respectively, in 2017, above the requirement of 5% and 45%.
• The DSCR in 2018 was 3.77x, higher than our forecast of 3.64x, mostly due to higher energy revenue than in our
base-case forecast.

Base Case

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 4

Orange Cogen Funding Corp.

Table 1

Orange Cogen Funding Corp.--Preliminary Operations Phase SACP
--Preliminary operations phase SACP outcome in column headers---Minimum DSCR ranges shown in the cells below*-aa

a

bbb

bb

b

1-2

=> 1.75

1.75–1.20

3-4

N/A

=> 1.40

1.20–1.10

<1.10§

<1.10§

1.40–1.20

1.20–1.10

< 1.10

5-6

N/A

=> 2.00

2.00–1.40

1.40–1.20

< 1.20

7–8
9–10

N/A

=> 2.50

2.50–1.75

1.75–1.40

< 1.40

N/A

=> 5.00

5.00–2.50

2.50–1.50

< 1.50

11-12

N/A

N/A

N/A

=> 3.00x

< 3.00

OPBA

*DSCR ranges include values at the lower but not upper bound. For example, for a range of 1.20x-1.10x, a value of 1.20x is excluded while a
value of 1.10x is included. §To determine the outcome in these cells, the key factors are typically the forecasted minimum DSCR (with at least
1.05x generally required for the 'BB' category), as well as relative break-even performance and liquidity levels. Please see "Project Finance:
Project Finance Operations Methodology," published Sept. 16, 2014. SACP--Stand-alone credit profile. OPBA--Operations phase business
assessment. DSCR--Debt service coverage ratio. N/A--Not applicable.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 5

Orange Cogen Funding Corp.

Assumptions

Key Metrics

• Availability factor: 91%

• Minimum DSCR: 3.63x

• Net generation: 395,811 MWh (the historical
five-year average)

• Average DSCR: 3.71x

• Heat rate: 8.94 million British thermal units
(MMBtu)/MWh (the historical five-year average)
• Operations and maintenance (O&M) costs based on
historical data and management budget
• Henry Hub natural gas price of $2.25 per MMBtu in
2019, $2.50 in 2020, $2.75 in 2021, and $3.00 in
2022. This translates into gas price assumptions,
including transportation costs, of about
$3.62/MMBtu in 2019, $3.88/MMBtu in 2020,
$4.15/MMBtu in 2021, and $4.41/MMBtu in 2022
• Inflation rate: 2%

Downside Case
Assumptions

Key Metrics

• Natural gas price of $5.00 per MMBtu in 2019, $6.05
per MMBtu in 2020, and escalating at 2% annually
thereafter

• Minimum DSCR: 2.72x

• 5% decline in the capacity factor
• 6% decline in the availability factor
• 3% heat rate degradation

• Average DSCR: 2.77x
• The project's downside performance is consistent
with the 'aa' category, which provides a one-notch
boost to the preliminary stand-alone credit profile
(SACP). The adjusted SACP is therefore 'a'.

• 12% increase in O&M costs
• Inflation rate increased by 1% over the base-case
scenario for five years

Peer Comparison

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 6

Orange Cogen Funding Corp.

Table 2

Orange Cogen Funding Corp.--Ratings Score Snapshot And Peer Comparison
Orange Cogen Funding Corp.

Indiantown Cogeneration L.P.

Operations phase SACP (senior debt)
Asset class operations stability

5

6

Performance risk

6

6

Operations phase business assessment

8

8

Minimum DSCR

3.63

3.12

Average DSCR

3.71

3.63

Preliminary SACP

a-

a-

Downside assessment

aa

aa

Capital structure and avg. DSCR
Liquidity

None

None

Neutral

Neutral

None

None

Comparative ratings analysis
Counterparty rating adjustments

bbb+

a-

Sovereign rating limitation

None

None

Operations phase SACP

bbb+

a-

Delinked

Capped

Neutral

Neutral

Full credit guarantee

None

None

Senior debt issue rating

BBB+

A-

Modifiers (senior debt)
Parent linkage
Structural protection

SACP--Stand-alone credit profile. DSCR--Debt service coverage ratio.

The project's closest peer is Indiantown Cogeneration L.P. (Indiantown), a 330-MW coal-fired cogeneration plant in
Martin County, Fla. that has been operating since 1995.
Similar to the project, Indiantown is fully contracted under a PPA with an investment-grade counterparty but is
exposed to market risks due to a mismatch between the index of energy revenues and energy expenses. As a result,
both projects have an operations phase business assessment (OPBA) of 8.
Both projects map to 'a-' preliminary SACPs with base-case minimum DSCRs above 3x, and receive one-notch uplift
due to strong downside resiliency. The ratings on both projects are capped by those on their PPA counterparties of
'A-'. The rating on Orange Cogen is further capped by that on its bank account counterparty Deutsche Bank Trust Co.
Americas of 'BBB+'.

Rating Score Snapshot
Operations phase SACP (senior debt)
• Operations phase business assessment: 8
• Preliminary SACP: a• Downside impact on preliminary SACP: +1

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 7

Orange Cogen Funding Corp.

• Liquidity: Neutral
• Comparative analysis assessment: None
• Adjusted preliminary operations phase SACP: a
• Operations counterparty ratings adjustment: a• Financial counterparty ratings adjustment: bbb+
• Operations phase SACP: BBB+
Modifiers (senior debt)
• Parent linkage: Delinked
• Structural protection: Neutral
• Senior debt issue rating: BBB+

Operations phase SACP
• We assess the project's OPBA at '8' on a 12-point scale on which '1' is the strongest. The project's OPBA is higher
than that of comparable contracted natural gas-fired power plants ,which usually have an OPBA of '5', because
Orange Cogen has an operational profile in line with an intermediate-load plant; below-average contract standards;
and exposure, albeit low, to variable gas and coal prices. This market exposure stems from a mismatch between the
PPA index of energy payments, which is tied to the cost of coal, and the project's cost of its fuel, natural gas.
• The minimum DSCR of 3.60x under our base case leads to a preliminary operations phase SACP of 'a-'.
• The project's performance under the downside case is consistent with the 'aa' category, resulting in an adjusted
preliminary SACP of 'a'.
• Nevertheless, the rating on the project is capped by the ratings on its PPA off-taker, DEF, and financial
counterparty, Deutsche Bank Trust.

Operations counterparties
• DEF is the sole revenue counterparty through the PPA. The rating on it caps the project rating regardless of the
project's operational performance, because we base our analysis on the project's reliance on DEF's payments to
maintain facility operations and pay debt service.
• LTSA counterparty GE covers the services associated with repairs, mechanical outages inspection, and overhaul
services. We treat GE as a replaceable counterparty.
• The rating on the project is constrained by that on Deutsche Bank Trust because the replacement provision in the
project agreement does not fully comply with our financial counterparty criteria.

Liquidity
• We assess the project's liquidity as neutral, and sufficient to backstop near-term obligations.
• Liquidity is primarily supported through a six-month debt service reserve account (about $7.96 million as of March
31 2019).
• An equity lock-up mechanism also provides protection if coverage hits 1.3x.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 8

Orange Cogen Funding Corp.

Other modifiers
• None

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Counterparty Risk Framework: Methodology And Assumptions, March 8, 2019
• Criteria - Corporates - Project Finance: Key Credit Factors For Power Project Financings, Sept. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - Project Finance: Project Finance Operations Methodology, Sept. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - Project Finance: Project Finance Transaction Structure Methodology, Sept. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - Project Finance: Project Finance Framework Methodology, Sept. 16, 2014
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - Project Finance: Project Finance Construction And Operations Counterparty Methodology,
Dec. 20, 2011
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 9

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 10

