Baosteel Resources International Co.
Ltd.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Christine Li, Hong Kong (852) 2532-8005; Christine.Li@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Danny Huang, Hong Kong (852) 2532-8078; danny.huang@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Group Influence
Issue Ratings - Subordination Risk Analysis
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 26, 2019 1

Baosteel Resources International Co. Ltd.
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

bbb+

b

BBB+/Stable/--

b

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key strengths

Key risks

High integration with its parent, China Baowu Steel Group Corp. Ltd.'s
operations.

Weak market position and limited operational scale.
High leverage due to low margins in the commodity trading
business.

To remain as China Baowu Steel Group Corp. Ltd.'s (A-/Stable/--) only offshore platform for the acquisition and
development of metals and mining. Baosteel Resources International Co. Ltd. (BRI; BBB+/Stable/--) is highly
integrated into Baowu's strategy and operations as its only offshore platform in charge of the mergers and acquisition
and development of natural resources. It is also a primary offshore platform of resource procurement, trading, and
financing for Baowu and Baowu's subsidiaries. We expect the company to maintain its position within the group.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 26, 2019 2

Baosteel Resources International Co. Ltd.

Outlook: Stable

The outlook on BRI reflects the outlook on Baowu and our assessment that BRI will remain a highly strategic
subsidiary of the group.
The stable outlook on Baowu reflects our expectation that the company will maintain its profitability over the next
one to two years. Baowu's leading position in China's steel market, strong pricing power, and efficient cost control
should ensure a decent profit margin in the next 12-24 months, even if steel prices retreat from current levels. It
also reflects our expectation that the company will maintain disciplined capital expenditure without aggressive
merger and acquisition plans.

Downside scenario
We may lower the rating on Baowu if the company's profitability deteriorates such that its debt-to-EBITDA ratio
sustains above 3.0x. That could happen due to: (1) weaker steel demand and prices than we expect; (2) higher cost
inflation than we anticipate, which is not passed on to end users; or (3) aggressive capital outlays that weaken the
company's cash flows.

Upside scenario
We may upgrade Baowu if the company's debt-to-EBITDA ratio remains well below 2.0x and it maintains positive
free operating cash flows for a sustained period. This could be due to improved profitability amid a strengthening
market position and ability to control costs.

Company Description
BRI is a wholly owned subsidiary of Baowu. It currently runs two primary businesses, including resource trading and
resource development. For resource trading, it provides funding services to its clients, including the group's other
subsidiaries and third parties.
The company is positioned as the group's only offshore platform for the acquisition and development of metals and
mining. It is also a primary platform for its parent's resources procurement, trading, and financing.

Business Risk: Weak
BRI's business position remains weak on a stand-alone basis given its weak market position, small scale of operations,
and low trading margins.
BRI's high integration with its parent will continue to underpin its status within the group. We believe BRI plays a
critical role in advancing the group's aim of becoming a vertically integrated steel producer and ensuring
self-sufficiency in raw materials to be cost-competitive, through investments and the development of offshore mining

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 26, 2019 3

Baosteel Resources International Co. Ltd.

assets.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
Our assessment of BRI's financial position reflects our view that the company will continue to have high debt and
limited operating cash flows on a stand-alone basis. We believe the company's debt leverage will remain elevated over
the next 12-24 months owing to low margins in its trading business, which currently accounts for a majority of its
earnings and cash flows.

Liquidity: Adequate
We assess BRI's liquidity as adequate, reflecting our assessment of Baowu's liquidity. Besides, BRI's link with its parent
sufficiently supports its standing in the credit markets without significant refinancing risk, as partly indicated by the
company's satisfactory funding costs relative to peers.
We assess Baowu's liquidity as adequate. We forecast that the company's liquidity sources will exceed liquidity uses by
more than 1.2x over the 12 months to September 2019. Net liquidity sources should remain positive even if EBITDA
declines by 15% from our base case. The company has solid banking relationships and good access to capital markets,
demonstrated by a track record of relatively low funding costs.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Cash and short-term investments of RMB57 billion
as of June 30, 2018.

• Short-term debt maturing in 12 months of about
RMB179 billion as of June 30, 2018

• Funds from operations that we forecast at RMB45
billion-RMB46 billion for the 12 months ending June
30, 2019.

• Working capital needs of about RMB1 billion in the
12 months ending June 30, 2019.

• Ongoing government support of RMB179 billion in
the form of credit lines from policy and state-owned
banks to refinance short-term debt in the next 12
months.

• Capital expenditure of about RMB22 billion for the
period.
• Dividend payout of RMB4.5 billion-RMB5 billion for
the same period.

Group Influence
BRI's operations and financial management are highly integrated with those of Baowu. Therefore our ratings on BRI
move in tandem with that on its parent. We view BRI as a highly strategic but not a core subsidiary of Baowu due to its
small operating scale compared with its parent and independent operation on resources development. The rating on
BRI is thus one notch below that on Baowu.
We expect Baowu to maintain its 100% ownership of BRI. Apart from being Baowu's only offshore operating

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 26, 2019 4

Baosteel Resources International Co. Ltd.

subsidiary for the acquisition and development of metals and mining, BRI also serves the parent and its other
subsidiaries on offshore procurement and financing operations. We expect Baowu to maintain its high control and
strong supervision over BRI's operations, especially in trade activities. The rating also reflects our expectation that BRI
is likely to benefit indirectly from extraordinary government support through its parent.

Issue Ratings - Subordination Risk Analysis
Capital structure
As of Dec. 31, 2018, BRI's capital structure consisted of US$1.9 billion of interest-bearing debt, including secured debt
of US$938 million.

Analytical conclusions
Our issue rating on the senior unsecured notes issued by Baosteel Financing 2015 Pty. Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary
of BRI, is the same as the issuer credit rating on BRI. BRI provides unconditional and irrevocable guarantee to the
notes. In our view, BRI's capital structure has no subordination risk because its priority debt ratio is below our notching
down threshold of 50%.
In addition, with potential support indirectly from the government through its parent Baowu, we believe structurally
subordinated lenders would not have poorer recovery prospects than structurally senior lenders.

Related Criteria
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Reflecting Subordination Risk In Corporate Issue Ratings, March 28, 2018
• General Criteria: Guarantee Criteria, Oct. 21, 2016
• General Criteria: Rating Government-Related Entities: Methodology And Assumptions, March 25, 2015
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Metals And Mining Downstream Industry, Dec. 20,
2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Timeliness Of Payments: Grace Periods, Guarantees, And Use Of 'D' And 'SD'
Ratings, Oct. 24, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 26, 2019 5

Baosteel Resources International Co. Ltd.

• General Criteria: Stand-Alone Credit Profiles: One Component Of A Rating, Oct. 1, 2010
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Business Risk Profile
Excellent
Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

Ratings Detail (As Of September 26, 2019)*
Baosteel Resources International Co. Ltd.
Issuer Credit Rating

BBB+/Stable/--

Issuer Credit Ratings History
20-Nov-2018

BBB+/Stable/--

23-May-2017

BBB/Stable/--

23-Sep-2016

BBB/Watch Neg/--

01-Feb-2016

BBB/Stable/--

15-Jan-2015

BBB+/Stable/--

Related Entities
Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. Ltd.
Issuer Credit Rating

A-/Stable/--

Bao-Trans Enterprises Ltd.
Issuer Credit Rating

A-/Stable/--

China Baowu Steel Group Corp. Ltd.
Issuer Credit Rating

A-/Stable/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 26, 2019 6

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 26, 2019 7

