Newport Group Holdings II Inc.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Ben Hirsch, CFA, New York + 1 (212) 438 0240; ben.hirsch@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Minesh Patel, CFA, New York (1) 212-438-6410; minesh.patel@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 1

Newport Group Holdings II Inc.
Overview
Key Strengths

Key Risks

Good industry tailwinds from increased regulation.

Highly leveraged debt capitalization that reduces flexibility.

Recurring revenue streams that support earnings
visibility.

Financial sponsor ownership, which increases risk of prioritizing shareholder-friendly
financial policy.
Smaller scale of revenues than larger players.

Credit Highlights
The company's high leverage restricts financial and operational flexibility. We view Newport Group Holdings II Inc.'s
leverage, forecast at 5.4x (on an S&P Global Ratings basis) at year-end 2019, as high. In May 2019, leverage rose to the
high-5x area after it completed its acquisition of PNC Bank's noncore retirement business. Key factors driving leverage
reduction include expected earnings from onboarding the 403(b) book of business from Vanguard in the second half of
2019 and earnings contribution from the PNC acquisition.
Newport is controlled by private equity sponsor Kelso & Co. Given our expectations that financial sponsors often use
leverage to maximize their investment returns, we expect it to be sustained above 5x over the next 12-24 months.
Nevertheless, healthy EBITDA margins and modest capital expenditure (capex) needs provide sufficient cash flow to
meet its debt service.
Newport's small business scale and narrow product focus limit ratings upside. Relative to the U.S. retirement savings
industry and ratings peers, Newport operates within a narrow product focus and at a smaller scale by revenue and
earnings. Newport specializes in servicing 401(k) and 403(b) defined contribution plans (64% of revenues), with $235
million in revenue expected in 2019.
Other independent service providers such as Ascensus LLC offer government 529 savings and health savings account
recordkeeping and administration in addition to retirement accounts. They are expanding revenue and geographic
scale rapidly through industry consolidation.
Good industry tailwinds and recurring revenue streams should support earnings growth over the next 12 months.
Newport's business model benefits from high (85%) recurring revenue from service fees with high retention rates (95%)
from per-plan and -participant fees in its largest segment, retirement recordkeeping and administration. S&P Global
Ratings recognizes the through-cycle demand stability both in the numbers of 401(k) plans and total participants over
time. We believe recent regulatory trends such as state-sponsored retirement plans and multiple employer retirement
plans indicate a broader bipartisan regulatory approach aimed at increasing retirement savings. This should support
organic revenue and earnings expansion.
Additionally, increasing regulatory complexity should support demand for outsourced regulatory expertise, particularly
among small to midsize businesses. We forecast Newport's free cash flow to debt at approximately 5.4% in 2019 and
10% in 2020.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 2

Newport Group Holdings II Inc.

Outlook

The stable outlook reflects our expectation for stable operating performance and modest improvement in EBITDA
margins, primarily through increased efficiencies and cross-selling opportunities. Despite higher interest expense in
2019, we expect Newport Group will generate free cash flow of approximately $20 million over the next 12
months, which will likely be used to pay down debt or fund accretive acquisitions.

Downside scenario
We could lower our ratings if operating performance weakens or if unforeseen changes in regulatory requirements
weaken the company's competitive position or adversely affects margins such that debt to EBITDA rises to and is
sustained above 7x. We could also lower our rating if Newport pursues debt-financed dividends or acquisitions that
lead to leverage sustained above our downgrade threshold.

Upside scenario
Although highly unlikely over the next 12 months, we could consider raising our ratings if Newport significantly
strengthens its business scale and broadens its product mix, possibly through good execution of its cross-selling
strategy and new business wins. We could also consider an upgrade if it significantly improves key credit metrics
through solid operating performance and a less aggressive financial policy, such that S&P Global Ratings-adjusted
debt to EBITDA is sustained below 5x.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 3

Newport Group Holdings II Inc.

Assumptions

Key Metrics

• Real U.S. GDP growth of 2.5% in 2019 and 1.8% in
2020;

• S&P Global Ratings-adjusted debt to EBITDA
around 5.4x as of Dec. 31, 2019; and

• U.S. unemployment rate of 3.6% in 2019 and 2020;

• Free operating cash flow to debt of approximately
5.4% in 2019, increasing to approximately 10% in
2020.

• Mid-single-digit percent total revenue growth in
2019 to approximately $235 million, driven by
increased retirement services scale as a result of the
PNC business acquisition and the activation of
contracts with Vanguard in the second half of the
year;
• Low- to mid-single-digit percent organic revenue
growth rates thereafter, driven by cross-selling
opportunities and steady annual retirement plan and
participant increases;
• S&P Global Ratings-adjusted EBITDA margins in the
high-20% area in 2019 and 2020, driven by the
incorporation of the higher-margin PNC acquisition
and its larger average plans, which we expect can be
serviced with Newport's existing capabilities;
• S&P Global Ratings-adjusted debt of about $385
million, which includes about $23 million of debt
adjustments such as capitalized operating leases;
• Capex of around 1.7% of revenues annually;
• Small tuck-in acquisitions; and
• No shareholder returns.

Company Description
Newport Group is an independent provider of recordkeeping and administrative services for qualified and nonqualified
retirement plans. It serves financial institutions, large companies, and small to midsize businesses through three
segments:
• Retirement services: Accounting for approximately 64% of revenues, generated by per-plan and -participant fees
collected from recordkeeping and administration for qualified (54%) and nonqualified (10%) defined contribution
retirement plans.
• Insurance services: Accounting for approximately 23% of revenues, Newport designs, implements, and administers
insurance policies for corporate clients (and assumes no underwriting risk).
• Consulting services: Accounting for approximately 13% of revenues, consists primarily of investment advisory
services for large corporations.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 4

Newport Group Holdings II Inc.

Business Risk
Our assessment considers Newport's small scale of operations and narrow focus within the highly competitive and
rapidly consolidating human resources (HR) services-based business process outsourcing (BPO) market, as well as its
dependence on its channel partners. We view favorably Newport's good revenue visibility from its service fee revenue,
low overall top-line equity market risk exposure, high customer switching costs, and scalable cost structure.
Competition comes from larger, well-capitalized players such as Automatic Data Processing Inc. (AA/Stable/A-1+)
and Conduent Inc. (BB/CW Neg/--), as well as other modestly larger independent recordkeepers such as Ascensus
(B-/Stable/--). Compared to the rapid debt-financed acquisition growth strategy of Ascensus, Newport operates on a
smaller scale by revenues, earnings, plans, and assets administered, albeit with reduced top-line equity market risk
exposure by comparison. Mitigating factors in our analysis include Newport's supportive industry drivers such as
increasing demographic, macroeconomic, and bipartisan legislative tailwinds that will underpin overall retirement plan
and participant volume growth over the long term. S&P Global Ratings also believes that secular trends toward
outsourcing will also support Newport's business prospects over the next 2-3 years, as companies increasingly
delegate noncore functions to third party outsourcers to improve productivity and increase organizational agility by
decreasing business costs.
On May 6, 2019, Newport acquired PNC's vested interest defined contribution plan recordkeeping business to enhance
scale in retirement services. We expect adjusted EBITDA margin improvement of at least 300 basis points through
2020, largely driven by the incorporation of the higher-margin acquisition. We expect Newport to further extend its
value into its larger client base through 2019 and 2020 by cross-selling insurance plan design and administration into
its upsized qualified and nonqualified client-base, resulting in cash flow generation of approximately $20 million in
2019 and $35 million in 2020.

Financial Risk
Our assessment reflects Newport's high S&P Global Ratings-calculated leverage, which is expected to decline to 5.4x
by year-end 2019, and its financial policy risk posed by financial sponsor ownership. Our leverage calculation includes
our standard operating lease adjustment, which adds $23 million to debt and $6 million to EBITDA. We do not net
cash against debt given the company's financial sponsor ownership.
Newport's high leverage could restrict its ability to affect further industry consolidation actions, or to capitalize on
growth opportunities presented by unanticipated shifts in regulatory or technological trends within its markets, which
are characterized by rapid change. However, in our base-case scenario, we forecast that Newport will naturally
deleverage as it incorporates the larger-than-average plans from the PNC acquisition and continues its cross-selling
initiatives.
Other ratings peers within HR outsourcing, such as Ascensus and Alight Solutions LLC (B/Stable/--) have aggressively
increased their debt capitalization over the last 24 months for shareholder returns and acquisitions. Newport has
maintained a relatively more reserved financial policy posture.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 5

Newport Group Holdings II Inc.

Liquidity
We view Newport's liquidity as adequate, based on our expectations that sources of cash will exceed uses by at least
1.2x over the next 12 months, and that net sources would be positive even if EBITDA were to decline by 15%. We
anticipate Newport's liquidity profile will benefit from positive free cash flow and low debt amortization over the next
12 months.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• $10 million balance sheet cash available as of June
30, 2019;

• Approximately $4 million in annual capex;

• $20.4 million in undrawn revolving credit capacity
as of June 30, 2019; and
• Annual cash funds from operations of $30
million-$40 million in 2019.

• Working capital needs between $10 million and $15
million in 2019; and
• Annual debt amortization of approximately $3
million.

Covenant Analysis
Compliance expectations
The revolving credit facility is subject to a minimum interest coverage ratio of 2x and a springing consolidated total
secured leverage covenant when the revolver is 35% drawn. As of March 31, 2019, Newport had cushion in excess of
35% against both covenants.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 6

Newport Group Holdings II Inc.

Key analytical factors

• Newport's capital structure consists of the pari passu $30 million senior secured revolving credit facility due
Sept. 13, 2023; $304 million first-lien term loan due in September 2025; and $60 million second-lien term loan
due in September 2026.
• Badger Merger Sub Inc. is the borrower, and the debt is guaranteed by all material domestic subsidiaries.
• The secured debt has a '3' recovery rating and 'B' issue-level rating, reflecting our expectation for meaningful
(rounded estimate: 55%) recovery in the event of a payment default. We do not rate the second-lien term loan.
• Our simulated default scenario contemplates a 2022 default amid regulatory changes that reduce demand for
retirement and insurance plans or a reputation-damaging information technology security breach, resulting in
significantly lower cash flows.
• We assume Newport would reorganize in a default scenario due to its established sales channel partnerships
with major financial institutions and insurance firms. As a result, we value the company on a going-concern
basis using a 5.5x multiple of EBITDA.

Simulated default assumptions

Simplified waterfall

• Simulated year of default: 2022

• Valuation split in % (obligors/nonobligors): 100/0

• EBITDA at emergence: $36 million

• Net recovery value after administrative expenses
(5%): $190 million

• Multiple: 5.5x
• Gross enterprise value: about $200 million

• Secured first-lien debt claims: $329 million
• --Recovery expectations: 50%-70% (rounded
estimate: 55%)
All debt amounts include six months of prepetition
interest.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating: B/Stable/-Business Risk: Weak
• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Weak

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 7

Newport Group Holdings II Inc.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: b
Modifiers:
• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital Structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Financial policy: FS-6 (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)

Related Criteria
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Business And Consumer Services Industry, Nov. 19,
2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Ratings Detail (As Of September 25, 2019)*
Newport Group Holdings II, Inc.
Issuer Credit Rating

B/Stable/--

Senior Secured

B

Issuer Credit Ratings History
26-Jul-2018

B/Stable/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 8

Newport Group Holdings II Inc.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 9

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 10

