Recovery Report:

New Academy Holding Co. LLC's Recovery Rating
Profile
September 10, 2019

Recovery Rating Rationale

PRIMARY CREDIT ANALYST

- S&P Global Ratings is providing an update to its recovery analysis of New Academy Holding Co.
Our analysis considers the company's recent distressed exchange transaction with respect to
its senior secured term debt.
- The '4' recovery rating on the senior secured term loan remains unchanged and reflects average
(30%-50%) recovery prospects in the event of a payment default. The issue rating remains
'CCC+'.

Mathew Christy, CFA
New York
(1) 212-438-7786
mathew.christy
@spglobal.com
RECOVERY ANALYST
Kenny K Tang
New York

Table 1

(1) 212-438-3338
kenny.tang
@spglobal.com

New Academy Holdings Co. LLC--Credit Profile
Issuer credit rating

CCC+/Negative/--

Estimated gross enterprise
value at default

$1.3 billion

Year of default

2020

Facility/issue

Principal and interest
outstanding at default (mil.
$)*

Recovery
rating

Issue
rating

Expected recovery
(%)

$1.0 billion asset-based
lending revolving credit
facility

614.0

NR

NR

N/A

July 2,
2023

$1.825 billion senior
secured term loan

1,532.0

4

CCC+

(30%-50%,
rounded estimate:
40%)

July 2,
2022

Maturity

Secured debt

*Includes an assumed six months of accrued and unpaid interest. NR--Not rated. N/A--Not applicable.

For the complete issuer credit rating rationale, see "Research Update: New Academy Holding Co.
LLC Upgraded To 'CCC+' From 'SD' Following Distressed Exchange, Outlook Negative," published
June 20, 2019.

www.spglobal.com/ratingsdirect

September 10, 2019

1

Recovery Report: New Academy Holding Co. LLC's Recovery Rating Profile

Issue Ratings--Recovery Analysis
Simulated default scenario
Our simulated default scenario contemplates a consequential sales decline due to some
combination of a general economic slowdown, which causes a decrease in discretionary spending,
increased competition from big box/general retailers and online specialty shops, and a marginal
shift in U.S. consumer preferences away from sports and outdoor activities to online gaming.
Given that New Academy has high fixed costs relative to its EBITDA and a high interest expense,
under this scenario of consequential sales declines the company would not be able to maintain
adequate cash flows to service its debt. We estimate fixed-charge requirements of approximately
$237 million. Our simulated scenario assumes a default in the first half of 2020.
For our recovery analysis, we assume the asset-based revolver is 60% drawn, mandatory principal
amortization is made up to default year, and six months of accrued and unpaid interest on funded
debt.
- Simulated year of default: 2020
- Debt service assumption: $142 million

Valuation
We assume the company would close underperforming stores, reduce redundant personnel levels,
and perform other cost-cutting measures to improve margins. We make a minor upward
adjustment to account for an assumed cyclical rebound in the sporting goods and outdoor
products market. After these adjustments our recovery analysis arrives at an estimated
emergence EBITDA of approximately $262 million, to which we applied a 5x multiple. S&P Global
Ratings estimates a gross recovery value of about $1.3 billion for New Academy as a going
concern.
- Emergence EBITDA: about $262 million
- EBITDA multiple: 5x
- Emergence enterprise value: $1.3 billion
- Debt outstanding at default: $2.2 billion

Outcome
After a 5% charge for restructuring administrative expenses and a payment of the asset-based
lending (ABL) priority claim, we estimate average (30%-50%, rounded estimate: 40%) recovery
prospects for secured term loan lenders. The estimated outstanding debt on the term loan at
default is $1.5 billion.

www.spglobal.com/ratingsdirect

September 10, 2019

2

Recovery Report: New Academy Holding Co. LLC's Recovery Rating Profile

Legal And Structural Considerations
Capital structure
The existing debt structure consists of:
- $1.0 billion ABL revolver facility; and
- $1.8 billion senior secured term loan facility (principal outstanding of $1.5 billion)

Security and guarantee package
Academy Ltd. (a wholly owned, indirect subsidiary of New Academy Holding Co. LLC) is the
borrower under the asset-based revolver and first-lien term loan. The ABL facility is secured by a
first-priority lien on all of Academy Ltd.'s cash, accounts receivable, inventory, and securities
accounts. The ABL facility is secured by a second-priority lien on all of the $1.8 billion term loan
facility's collateral. The term loan is secured by a first-priority security interest in substantially all
current and future real and personal property owned by Academy Ltd., as well as a first-priority
pledge of 100% of the capital stock of Academy Ltd.'s domestic subsidiaries and 66% of the voting
capital stock of each of Academy Ltd.'s foreign subsidiaries it directly owns.
Obligations under the secured credit facilities are guaranteed by New Academy Holdings Co. LLC
(the parent) and each of the existing and future direct and indirect material, wholly owned
domestic subsidiaries, subject to certain customary exceptions.

Documentation/covenants
The ABL revolving credit facility includes a springing financial maintenance covenant that requires
the fixed-charge ratio to remain below 1.0 to 1.0 when excess availability (as defined in the credit
agreement) is less than the greater of 10% of the maximum borrowing amount (as defined in the
credit agreement) or $60 million.
The ABL revolving credit facility also has a springing maturity date if there is any remaining
balance outstanding on the term loan 91 days before its maturity date, at which point the ABL
credit facility will become due on that day (91 days before the term loan's maturity date), unless
the term loan has been refinanced.

Insolvency regimes
No significant portion of New Academy Holding Co. LLC's revenues come from outside of the U.S.
In the event of a default the company would most likely file for bankruptcy protection under the
U.S. Bankruptcy court system and would likely not involve foreign jurisdictions.

www.spglobal.com/ratingsdirect

September 10, 2019

3

Recovery Report: New Academy Holding Co. LLC's Recovery Rating Profile

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any
part thereof (Content) may be modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or
retrieval system, without the prior written permission of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The
Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party providers, as well as their directors, officers,
shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or availability of the
Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results
obtained from the use of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is”
basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT
THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE
CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and
opportunity costs or losses caused by negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such
damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are
expressed and not statements of fact. S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not
recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any
security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The Content should not be relied on
and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While
S&P has obtained information from sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due
diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Rating-related publications may be published for a variety of reasons
that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication of a periodic update on a
credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for
certain regulatory purposes, S&P reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole
discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as
well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their
respective activities. As a result, certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P
has established policies and procedures to maintain the confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each
analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors.
S&P reserves the right to disseminate its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites,
www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com (subscription), and may be distributed through other means,
including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is available at
www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

www.spglobal.com/ratingsdirect

September 10, 2019

4

