Huayi Group (Hong Kong) Ltd.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Calvin Ge, Hong Kong (852) 2533-3560; calvin.ge@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Ronald Cheng, Hong Kong (852) 2532-8015; ronald.cheng@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Group Influence
Government Influence
Issue Ratings - Subordination Risk Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 1

Huayi Group (Hong Kong) Ltd.
Business Risk: VULNERABLE

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

bbb-

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b-

BBB-/Stable/--

b-

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key Strengths

Key Risks

Potential support from parent in terms of liquidity and capital injection. High leverage due to its role as the parent's offshore financing platform.

Will remain Shanghai Huayi (Group) Co.'s (BBB/Stable/--) only offshore financing platform. Huayi Group (Hong
Kong) Ltd. (BBB-/Stable/--) provides guarantee to the group's offshore-issued U.S.-dollar-denominated notes and we
expect Huayi HK to maintain this role. We expect Huayi HK's actual business operations to remain small.

Outlook: Stable

The stable outlook on Huayi HK reflects the stable outlook on Shanghai Huayi, as well as our view that Huayi HK
will remain a highly strategic subsidiary of the group in the next 24 months.

Downside scenario
We may lower the rating if we downgrade Shanghai Huayi. We may also lower the rating if we believe Huayi HK's
strategic importance to the group weakens.

Upside scenario
We may raise the rating if we upgrade Shanghai Huayi, or if Huayi HK's strategic importance or financial
contribution to the group becomes significant so that we assess it to be a core subsidiary.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 2

Huayi Group (Hong Kong) Ltd.

Company Description
Huayi HK is incorporated in Hong Kong and is a subsidiary of Shanghai Huayi. Huayi HK provides irrevocable and
unconditional guarantee to the group's offshore-issued U.S.-dollar notes.

Business Risk: Vulnerable
The company is fully integrated with Shanghai Huayi and has minimal business operations. Besides being the only
offshore financial platform of the group, Huayi HK also handles a small portion of the group's export activities. We
expect the company to maintain its function as the group's only offshore financing platform going forward.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
We expect Huayi HK to remain highly leveraged, given its role as an offshore financing platform with minimal business
operations.

Group Influence
We assess Huayi HK as a highly strategic subsidiary of Shanghai Huayi, thus placing its rating one notch below that on
Shanghai Huayi. Huayi HK is fully integrated into Shanghai Huayi strategically, financially, and operationally. It
functions as the group's only offshore financing platform and also handles part of the group's export activities.
However, given limited financial contribution, we view Huayi HK as a highly strategic rather than core subsidiary.
We do not consider a keepwell agreement and an undertaking for an equity interest purchase between Shanghai Huayi
and Huayi HK as guarantees even though the arrangement demonstrates strong parental support. A keepwell
agreement is a contract between a parent company and a subsidiary to maintain solvency and financial backing
throughout a set term. It differs from a legally binding guarantee, in our view.

Government Influence
We believe Shanghai Huayi has moderately high likelihood of receiving extraordinary support from its ultimate
shareholder, Shanghai government. We expect government support to be able to extend to Huayi HK through
Shanghai Huayi in the event of a financial distress.

Issue Ratings - Subordination Risk Analysis
Capital structure
As of Dec. 31, 2018, Huayi HK's capital structure consists of US$350 million in outstanding senior unsecured notes
guaranteed by Huayi HK, as well as US$169 million in borrowings at the subsidiaries level.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 3

Huayi Group (Hong Kong) Ltd.

Analytical conclusions
We equalize the 'BBB-' rating on the outstanding senior unsecured notes guaranteed by Huayi HK with the issuer
credit rating on Huayi HK. As the priority debt ratio is below 50%, our issue notching down threshold, we do not
expect the noteholders to be structurally subordinated to other senior unsecured lenders.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
BBB-/Stable/--

Business risk: Vulnerable

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Moderately high
• Competitive position: Vulnerable
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: bModifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: Neutral (no impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Satisfactory (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)
Stand-alone credit profile : b-

• Group credit profile: bbb
• Entity status within group: Highly strategic (+6 notches from SACP)

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, July 1, 2019
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, April 1, 2019
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Reflecting Subordination Risk In Corporate Issue Ratings, March 28, 2018
• General Criteria: Guarantee Criteria, Oct. 21, 2016
• General Criteria: Rating Government-Related Entities: Methodology And Assumptions, March 25, 2015
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 4

Huayi Group (Hong Kong) Ltd.

Issuers, Dec. 16, 2014
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Timeliness Of Payments: Grace Periods, Guarantees, And Use Of 'D' And 'SD'
Ratings, Oct. 24, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities, Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Stand-Alone Credit Profiles: One Component Of A Rating, Oct. 1, 2010
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Business Risk Profile
Excellent
Strong

Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

Satisfactory
Fair

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Ratings Detail (As Of September 24, 2019)*
Huayi Group (Hong Kong) Ltd.
Issuer Credit Rating

BBB-/Stable/--

Issuer Credit Ratings History
19-Sep-2019

BBB-/Stable/--

06-Jun-2019

BB+/Positive/--

29-Sep-2017

BB+/Stable/--

12-May-2016

BB+/Negative/--

29-Sep-2015

BBB-/Negative/--

17-Nov-2014

BBB-/Stable/--

Related Entities
Shanghai Huayi (Group) Co.
Issuer Credit Rating

BBB/Stable/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 5

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 6

