TGP Holdings III LLC
Primary Credit Analyst:
Raina Patel, New York + 1(212) 438-0894; raina.patel@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Chris Johnson, CFA, New York (1) 212-438-1433; chris.johnson@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 26, 2019 1

TGP Holdings III LLC
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b-

b-

b-

B-/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key Risks

Key Strengths

Outsourced manufacturing model that could be negatively affected by the
U.S.-China trade war.

Solid brand strength and category leader in wood-pellet grill
category.

Small scale and share in overall grill market.

Increasing sales-channel diversification.

Narrow focus on discretionary products that are vulnerable to economic
downturns.
Geographical concentration.
High debt balances.

We expect a modest rebound in margins in 2019 and 2020 as cost-reduction initiatives take hold and the company
realizes the benefits from diversifiying its manufacturing source, but leverage remains high. TGP's EBITDA margin was
significantly below our forecast in 2018 due to several factors that increased the company's operating expenses,
including higher freight expenses and rising inbound shipping costs. Margins also decreased due to the
macroeconomic headwinds and U.S.-China trade war, which started in earnest in mid-2018, leading to rising steel
costs and a negative impact on foreign exchange. The company sources the majority of its steel from China, and most
of its manufacturing is based there as well, which pressured margins as steel prices increased. In addition, the negative
foreign-exchange impact was only partially offset by currency hedges. In the first half of 2019, TGP announced a
strategic sourcing shift starting in the fourth quarter of 2019. This--coupled with a reduction of operating expenses
through warehouse and logistics, stock-keeping-unit rationalization, and successful new product launches--should
increase adjusted EBITDA margins to above 18%. However, given the relatively high debt load, leverage will likely
remain around 7x, and EBITDA interest coverage should remain at about 2x. Furthermore, given the highly
discretionary nature of the company's products, we believe TGP remains very susceptible to an economic downturn.
As economic volatility and trade tensions continue, we remain cautious of the current macroeconomic backdrop.
Strong top-line growth in 2019, supported by new product launches, increased market penetration strategies, and efforts
to improve channel diversification. The company is expected to have revenue growth of about 20% in 2019, stabilizing
in the mid-single digits thereafter, driven by the new product launches in first half of 2019 and improved household
penetration by way of higher marketing spend (along with fewer pronounced seasonal fluctuations). Earlier in 2019, the
company launched its technologically advanced, next generation of wood-pellet grills (the Pro series, Ironwood series,

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 26, 2019 2

TGP Holdings III LLC

and TimberLine series). The company has also made strides in increasing household penetration through brand
awareness and retail product marketing, with campaigns such as "Try it on a Traeger." The company continues to
expand its sales channels with better exposure and partnerships with big-box stores such as Home Depot. Current
household market penetration is approximately 2%, with the company expecting it to meaningfully improve over the
forecast period through brand awareness, increased marketing, product innovation, and increased in-store promotions.
We expect 3%-4% annual growth in marketing and sales expenses over the forecast period to support top-line
accretion.

Outlook: Stable

The stable outlook reflects our view that the company's operating performance improvement will continue as
higher pricing offsets input cost inflation (particularly for steel). This should allow the company to restore its
positive free cash flow, repay debt, and improve debt to EBITDA closer to 7x while maintaining EBITDA interest
coverage of more than 2x. In addition, we expect the company to modestly improve cash generation.

Downside scenario
We could lower the ratings if the company's operations deteriorate below our base-case forecast due to operating
headwinds--such as rising steel costs or an inability to sell-through inventory--resulting in negative free cash flow
and sustained EBITDA interest coverage of less than 2x. We could also lower our ratings if the company's liquidity
deteriorates such that its covenant cushion drops below 15%.

Upside scenario
Although unlikely over the next year, we could upgrade the company if it is able to continue to grow revenues and
EBITDA margins, resulting in free cash flow of more than $20 million and sustained debt to EBITDA below 6x.
This could occur if the company orchestrates an effective marketing campaign that enables it to gain new
customers, if its product mix shifts toward higher-margin sales, and if it enters new geographic markets while
reducing operating expenses.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 26, 2019 3

TGP Holdings III LLC

Assumptions

Key Metrics

• U.S. GDP is expected to grow by 2.5% in 2019 and
1.8% in 2020.
• Given that the company's products are highly
discretionary, we expect around 20% annual sales
growth in 2019 driven by the new product launches,
higher pricing, and improving market penetration
through advertising.

2018A

2019F

2020F

Debt to EBITDA (x)

11 6.8-7.2 6.5-6.8

FFO to debt (%)

1.3 6.0-6.5 7.0-7.5

A--Actual. F--Forecast. FFO--Funds from operations.
Note: Figures are as reported.

• We expect mid-single-digit-percentage growth in
2020 and beyond, supported by favorable pricing,
increased brand awareness due to higher marketing
spend, channel expansion, and stable core retail
partnerships.
• Adjusted EBITDA margin rebounds over the next
two years at 18%-20% as the company optimizes its
manufacturing and logistical processes, thus
reducing operating expenses. The margin headwinds
faced in the previous year are assumed to normalize
as the company offsets higher raw-material costs
and tariff impacts with higher pricing while
managing its foreign-currency exposure more
diligently.
• Working capital remains a modest use of cash flows
generated in 2019 before returning to historically
lower levels.
• Annual capital expenditures (capex) of about $7
million-$8 million during the forecast period.
• Free operating cash flow (FOCF) to be positive in
2019 and above $10 million in 2020.
• We expect no acquisitions or dividends, while
excess free cash flow generated is largely applied to
scheduled debt repayment.

Base-case projections
Our base case assumes the company will be largely successful in launching new marketing campaigns, strategic
sourcing shifts, and navigating volatile macroeconomic conditions. We believe that the company will continue to be
successful with new products launched earlier this year without material disruption in the business from potential
economic volatility. With high debt leverage of 9.6x as of June 30, 2019, and macroeconomic uncertainty increasing
from escalating trade tensions between the U.S. and China, we believe execution risk is heightened and that any
operational missteps could lead to a rapid deterioration in credit metrics.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 26, 2019 4

TGP Holdings III LLC

Rebounding EBITDA margin of 18%-20%, supported by company's sell-through of inventory and new product launches.
EBITDA margins are expected to be at 18%-19% in 2019 and then grow by 60 basis points (bps)-80 bps over the next
two years as the company manages to increase pricing to offset input cost and tariff headwinds. We expect free
operating cash flow (FOCF) to turn marginally positive by 2019 and above $15 million in 2020 because of improved
working-capital management. The leverage is expected to reach below 7x and EBITDA interest coverage to approach
2x over next two years, with better EBITDA realization resulting from improving margins as the company continues to
make scheduled debt repayments.

Company Description
Traeger Pellet Grills LLC designs and markets premium outdoor cooking products, specifically wood pellet grills, and
associated wood pellets, sauces, species, and grilling accessories. Founded in 1985, the company is both the inventor
and leader of the wood pellet grills category. The company is based in Salt Lake City, Utah.

Business Risk: Weak
TGP's business risk reflects the company's narrow product focus, its small market share in the overall grill market, the
seasonality of sales, and the highly discretionary nature of its products. The company primarily sells premium
wood-pellet grills, which are typically double the price of an average grill. The company also sells wood pellets for the
grills, sauces, spices, and accessories. Although the company has a strong position in the wood-pellet grill market, it
competes against much larger and better-known grill makers such as Char-Broil and Weber, which have broader
product offerings and greater financial resources. In addition, the company is highly susceptible to economic
downturns, given the discretionary nature of its products and lack of geographical sales diversification. Although the
company does have healthy margins, we believe that to sustain growth, it must continue to invest and successfully
execute on its marketing strategy to win new customers.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
Although the company is sponsor-owned, which often is associated with aggressive financial policies, we believe it will
focus on sustaining the above-industry-average growth of its popular wood-pellet grills by investing in marketing and
distribution rather than undertaking shareholder returns or debt-financed acquisitions. Over the next year, we expect
management to focus on improving operating execution and turn-around recently underperforming EBITDA, thereby
reducing leverage. As of the quarter ended June 30, 2019, the trailing 12-month debt to EBITDA was 9.6x, down from
11x at fiscal year-end 2018. Still, we believe the company will have good growth as it steadily increases household
penetration, expands geographically, and rebounds slightly in fiscal 2019, resulting in lower debt to EBITDA of about
7x and positive FOCF of about $5 million, as margin headwinds moderate and the company's product mix shifts to
higher-margin sales.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 26, 2019 5

TGP Holdings III LLC

Liquidity: Adequate
We assess Traeger's liquidity as adequate, as liquidity sources will exceed uses by 1.4x over the next 12 months and
continue to do so if EBITDA were to decline by 15%. We categorize the company's standing in the credit market as
satisfactory due to its debt trading at par. Although we consider the company to have sound banking relationships, we
do not categorize them as well established and solid. We also do not believe the company could withstand a
low-probability, high-impact event without the need to refinance. Such an event could be an economic downturn in the
U.S. economy, causing consumers to trade down from high-priced grill products or delay or forego discretionary
grilling-equipment purchases.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• $2.7 million in cash and cash equivalents as of June
30, 2019;

• $3.4 million in scheduled debt amortization annually
over each of the next three years;

• $32 million of availability under company's $50
million revolving facility; and

• $8 million of non-seasonal working capital and
capex over the next 12 months;

• $26.6 million of cash funds from operations over the
next 12 months.

• $25 million in seasonal working-capital
requirements; and
• Capex of $7.6 million over the next 12 months.

Covenant Analysis
The revolver has a springing maximum first-lien leverage ratio covenant of 7.4x (no stepdown), when revolver
borrowings exceed 35% of the total commitment ($17.5 million). The covenant is currently not springing. We expect
the company to continue to be in compliance, and to have greater than 20% cushion at year-end 2019.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
Our default scenario simulates a default in the first half of 2021 due to operational disruptions, a slowdown in
discretionary consumer spending, and a significant spike in input costs. These factors lead to significant EBITDA and
cash-flow deterioration, causing a payment default.

Capital structure
The company's capital structure consists of a $50 million revolving credit facility maturing in 2022, a $341.4 million
first-lien term loan maturing in 2024, and a $115 million second-lien term loan maturing in 2025.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 26, 2019 6

TGP Holdings III LLC

Simulated default assumptions
• Debt service: $44.1 million (default-year interest plus amortization)
• Maintenance capex: $1.2 million
• Default EBITDA proxy: $45.3 million
• Cyclicality adjustment: $2.3 million (5% of default EBITDA proxy)
• Preliminary emergence EBITDA: $47.6 million
• Operational adjustment: $0 million (0% of preliminary emergence EBITDA)
• Emergence EBITDA: $47.6 million

Simplified waterfall
• Emergence EBITDA: $47.6 million
• Multiple: 5.5x
• Gross recovery value: $261.6 million
• Net recovery value for waterfall after administrative expenses (5%): $248.5 million
• Obligor/non-obligor valuation split: 100%/0%
• Total first-lien claims: $387.9 million
• Value available for first-lien claims: $248.5 million
• Recovery range: 50%-70% (rounded estimate: 60%)
• Total second-lien claims: $121.3 million
• Value available for second-lien claims: $0 million
• Recovery range: 0%-10% (rounded estimate: 0%)
Note: All debt amounts include six months of pre-petition interest.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B-/Stable/--

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 26, 2019 7

TGP Holdings III LLC

Anchor: bModifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: FS-6 (no additional impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)
Stand-alone credit profile : b-

Related Criteria
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - Recovery: Methodology: Jurisdiction Ranking Assessments, Jan. 20, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Consumer Durables Industry, Dec. 12, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Business Risk Profile
Excellent
Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 26, 2019 8

TGP Holdings III LLC

Ratings Detail (As Of September 26, 2019)*
TGP Holdings III LLC
Issuer Credit Rating

B-/Stable/--

Senior Secured

B-

Senior Secured

CCC

Issuer Credit Ratings History
26-Sep-2018

B-/Stable/--

06-Sep-2017

B-/Positive/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 26, 2019 9

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 26, 2019 10

