BrightView Landscapes LLC
Primary Credit Analyst:
Bam Fakorede, New York + 1(212)438-1283; bam.fakorede@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Tatiana Kleiman, New York (1) 212-438-4872; tatiana.kleiman@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenants
Issue Ratings – Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 12, 2019 1

BrightView Landscapes LLC
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

b+

b+

b+

Financial Risk: AGGRESSIVE
Highly leveraged

B+/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key Strengths

Key Risks

Largest provider of lawn and landscape services in North America.

Subject to volatile weather conditions and cyclical end-markets.

Recurring revenue stream with good retention rates.

Operation in a rising cost environment with respect to employee
wages and material costs.

Demonstrated ability to manage costs and profitability despite high labor
and material inflation costs.

Releveraging risk from financial sponsor ownership.
Limited scope of services and geographic diversity.

The variable nature of weather patterns can create swings in profitability, though recent acquisitions have helped offset
headwinds from weather, managed exits, and contract completions. Revenues and earnings generated from
higher-margin snow removal services and other ancillary offerings vary based on snow and rainfall volumes, leaving
BrightView Landscapes LLC exposed to volatile weather patterns. As an example, year-over-year revenues declined
5% in the first quarter of 2019 due to lower snowfall, weather delays, and lack of hurricane cleanup projects. This year
has also been affected by unusually high rainfall, which caused delays and overtime-related cost pressure in the
maintenance segment that led to about 70 basis points in margin shortfall in the third quarter of 2019.
We expect the remainder of 2019 to improve as BrightView enters its green season, begins to implement new
development projects, and continues to make tuck-in acquisitions. We expect acquisition-based expansion to remain a
key growth component for the foreseeable future, especially as BrightView embarks on its penetration of the highly
profitable tree care business.
A focus on productivity, operating efficiency, and flexibility to increase prices enables BrightView to maintain steady
margins in light of rising labor and input costs. Cost pressures on labor-intensive service companies are affected by low
unemployment, a tightening labor pool, and rising wages. BrightView has traditionally utilized H-2B visa employees
who tend to be much more efficient and productive, but its ability to gain access to these skilled foreign employees is
hindered by tightening immigration policies. This forces BrightView to make up the shortfall by hiring outside the H-2B
program at higher wages. However, in the third quarter of 2019, the company received a favorable allocation of H-2B
visas relative to 2018, which should help to manage costs, reduce turnover, and improve productivity.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 12, 2019 2

BrightView Landscapes LLC

The company has partially offset its rising cost profile with contract repricing, employee turnover and productivity
initiatives, and sales team reorganization. BrightView's ability to manage its costs will be important in sustaining a
competitive position. We believe BrightView is well positioned to maintain margin stability over the next year due to
price increases, new business wins, acquisition contributions, and productivity savings.

Outlook

The stable outlook on BrightView reflects our expectation for continued positive operating performance over the
next 12 months as acquisition contribution and cost-improvement initiatives offset top-line pressure from its
managed contract exits and snowfall volatility.

Downside scenario
We could lower the ratings if heightened competitive pressures or operational inefficiencies stemming from sharp
increases in labor and input costs result in service quality declines and client attrition, such that leverage increases
to and is sustained above 5x. We could also lower the ratings if BrightView undertakes debt-funded shareholder
rewards that could be influenced by the controlling owners.

Upside scenario
We could consider an upgrade if we believe leverage will remain below 4x, most likely as a combination of debt
prepayment, acquisition contributions, and cost-reduction initiatives. This would also be contingent upon the
reduction in private equity sponsor ownership to below 40% over the medium term.

Our Base-Case Scenario
We expect debt to EBITDA in the low-4x area, free operating cash flow (FOCF) to debt around 8x-9x, and EBITDA
interest coverage around 4x through fiscal 2019 (ending Sept. 30, 2019). Over the past few years, BrightView focused
on eliminating unprofitable accounts through its managed exit initiative, decentralized its sales force to better focus on
clients, and executed several cost-management practices including electronic time capture for staff. We expect these
initiatives will translate to margin expansion and subsequent EBITDA-based deleveraging. Over the long term,
increased penetration of the higher-margin tree management business could also help combat margin pressure.
Risks to our forecast include rapidly increasing material or labor costs that could reduce cash flow or the inability to
successfully integrate acquisitions.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 12, 2019 3

BrightView Landscapes LLC

Assumptions

Key Metrics

• U.S. GDP growth of 2.5% in 2019 and 1.8% in 2020.
• Revenue growth remaining in the low-single-digit
percentage area through 2020 as acquisition
contributions, price increases, and new contract
wins offset revenue loss from managed exits.
• Adjusted EBITDA margins remaining in the
low-teen percentage area through 2020 as
BrightView manages through an elevated cost
environment by focusing on expense-reduction
initiatives, price increases, acquisition contributions,
and the strategic exit of unprofitable businesses.

2018A 2019P 2020E
FFO/debt (%)
Debt/EBITDA (x)
EBITDA margin (%)

15.1

16-18

17-20

4.3

4–4.5

4-4

12.9

12-14

12-14

A--Actual. P--Projected. E--Estimate. FFO--Funds from
operations.

• Moderate working capital usage.
• Annual capital expenditure (capex) of about 3% of
revenue.
• Continued tuck-in acquisitions.

Company Description
BrightView is the largest provider of landscape maintenance and snow removal services in the U.S. Though publicly
listed, the company remains under the control of private equity sponsor KKR, which owns 55.7% of the company.
BrightView caters largely to the commercial sector through its two main segments, maintenance services and
landscape development services. Maintenance services include landscaping, snow removal, golf course maintenance,
and franchising for small, local landscape providers. Development services include architecture and design, planting
trees, shrubs, turf, and flowers, and building and installing retaining walls, water features, and irrigation systems.

Business Risk
Despite its scale and market position as the largest U.S. provider of commercial lawn and landscape services,
BrightView's market share is less than 5%. BrightView's exposure to highly cyclical housing and commercial real estate
development end markets, as well as its reliance on weather patterns, introduce uncertainty and operating
performance volatility.
The industry is very competitive and fragmented, exposing the company to price sensitivity despite its scale and
national reach. Customer service is a key differentiator and retention, consistently in the mid-80% area, is good given
the significant level of price-based attrition.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 12, 2019 4

BrightView Landscapes LLC

Financial Risk
We expect leverage to remain in the mid- to low-4x area over the next year due to earnings expansion from cost
savings benefits and acquisition contribution. We anticipate FOCF generation to improve over the next year based on
earnings expansion and lower capital expenditure (capex) needs. However, our assessment is constrained by its
continued ownership by a financial sponsor.

Liquidity
Good cash flow generation, cash balances, and manageable debt amortization support our assessment of BrightView's
liquidity as adequate. Our assessment includes our expectation for sources to exceed uses by 1.2x or more over the
next 12 months, and to remain positive even if EBITDA declines by 15%. We believe BrightView has sound
relationships with banks given its track record of accessing the debt markets and generally satisfactory standing in
credit markets. However, the company might not absorb high-impact, low-probability events such as prolonged
adverse weather conditions without additional financing. We assess risk management as generally prudent.
Principal liquidity sources

Principal liquidity uses

• $10.9 million cash balance as of June 30, 2019;

• Working capital requirement of about $20 million;

• Availability of $184 million under its $260 million
revolving credit facility due in 2023; and

• Capex around $70 million-$75 million; and

• $45 million availability under the accounts
receivable facility due in 2022.

• Modest term loan amortization of about $10.4
million annually.

Covenants
The credit agreement is governed by a springing first-lien net leverage covenant of 6.5x that becomes effective when
revolver utilization exceeds 30% of the commitment (or $78 million). We do not expect this covenant to be triggered
over the next 12 months as we anticipate that the revolver will remain undrawn.

Issue Ratings – Recovery Analysis

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 12, 2019 5

BrightView Landscapes LLC

Key analytical factors

• Our simulated default scenario contemplates a default from customer attrition, competitive pressures, higher
fuel and labor costs, and weakness in the economy.
• We believe if BrightView were to default, a viable business model would continue given its market position,
long-standing customer relationships, well developed infrastructure, and diversified geographic footprint in the
U.S. Therefore, in evaluating recovery prospects for debtholders, we use an enterprise value methodology with a
5.5x multiple for calculating our projected emergence EV.

Simulated default assumptions

Simplified waterfall

• Simulated year of default: 2023

• Net enterprise value (after 5% administrative costs):
$1.064 billion

• EBITDA at emergence: ~$204 million
• EBITDA multiple: 5.5x

• Priority claims: ~$153 million
• Collateral value available to secured creditors:
~$911 million
• Secured first-lien debt claims: $1.244 billion
• --Recovery expectations: 70%-90% (rounded
estimate: 70%)
All debt amounts include six months of prepetition
interest.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B+/Stable/--

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Aggressive

• Cash flow/Leverage: Aggressive
Anchor: b+

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 12, 2019 6

BrightView Landscapes LLC

Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: FS-5 (no additional impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, July 1, 2019
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, April 1, 2019
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate
Issuers, Dec. 16, 2014
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria | Corporates | Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Business And Consumer Services Industry, Nov. 19,
2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities, Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Business Risk Profile

Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly leveraged

Excellent

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

Ratings Detail (As Of September 12, 2019)*
BrightView Landscapes LLC
Issuer Credit Rating

B+/Stable/--

Senior Secured

BB-

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 12, 2019 7

BrightView Landscapes LLC

Ratings Detail (As Of September 12, 2019)*(cont.)
Issuer Credit Ratings History
11-Jul-2018

B+/Stable/--

03-Dec-2013

B/Stable/--

24-Jan-2007

NR/--/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 12, 2019 8

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 12, 2019 9

