Kronos Acquisition Holdings Inc.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Archana S Rao, Toronto + 1 (416) 507 2568; archana.rao@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Aniki Saha-Yannopoulos, CFA, PhD, Toronto (1) 416-507-2579; aniki.saha-yannopoulos@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 1

Kronos Acquisition Holdings Inc.
Credit Highlights
Issuer Credit Rating
CCC+/Stable/--

Overview
Key strengths

Key risks

Good market position in an otherwise fragmented, competitive, and
mature industry.

Unsustainable capital structure with high leverage and tight EBITDA
interest coverage.

Minimal debt maturities for the next three years.

Highly acquisitive growth strategy introduces significant execution and
integration risk.

The company's unsustainable capital structure limits financial flexibility. S&P Global Ratings believes that Kronos
Acquisition Holdings Inc.'s heavy debt burden is unsustainable over the medium term. Since fiscal 2016, Kronos has
completed several acquisitions totaling about US$400 million. As a result, the company's debt has increased by about
US$400 million since December 2016 to fund these acquisitions and growth capital expenditures (capex). However,
S&P Global Ratings' adjusted EBITDA has grown modestly in the past three years, eventually leading to what we
believe is an unsustainable adjusted debt-to-EBITDA of above 9.5x as of June 30, 2019, from about 9.0x as of
December 2016. We believe such a capital structure offers scant protection against unexpected EBITDA
underperformance.
Low EBITDA interest coverage and thin free cash flows increase credit concerns.We forecast Kronos to generate
EBITDA interest coverage in the low 1x area in the near term. We believe that such tight coverage measures leave no
room for EBITDA deterioration due to higher-than-expected acquisition or integration charges or operational missteps.
We also estimate that the company will generate a level of EBITDA just sufficient to cover its fixed charges of interest
and capex.
Favorable second-quarter results are a small positive. Kronos posted improved profitability in the second-quarter
ended June 30, 2019 with EBITDA margins on an S&P Global Ratings' adjusted basis improving by about 300 basis
points based on favorable performance in its key household and automotive segments. The growth stemmed from
successful pricing and benefits from acquisition. Despite improved performance, we remain skeptical about company's
ability to sustain profitability given input cost volatility and limited pricing power of Kronos' key products.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 2

Kronos Acquisition Holdings Inc.

Outlook

The stable outlook reflects our view that despite high leverage and tight EBITDA interest coverage Kronos will
maintain adequate liquidity through its asset-based loan (ABL) facility. Based on our forecast, we expect the
company to have stable EBITDA and generate sufficient cash flows to cover fixed charges.

Downside scenario
We could lower the ratings if Kronos' liquidity position deteriorated such that the company was not able to service
its fixed charges of interest and capex. This could occur if the company's availability under its ABL facility
decreased significantly as a result of a material drop in EBITDA and free cash flows.

Upside scenario
Although unlikely in the next 12 months, we could raise the ratings if the company's leverage and EBITDA interest
coverage improved to below 8x and close to 2x, respectively.

Our Base-Case Scenario
Assumptions

Key Metrics

• GDP growth of 2.5% in U.S. and 1.2% in Canada in
2019

2018A

2019E

2020E

1.5%

1%-2%

1%-2%

Debt to EBITDA

9.6x

Above 9.5x

9.0x-9.5x

EBITDA interest coverage

1.3x Low 1x area Low 1x area

FOCF to debt

• Low-to-mid single-digit revenue growth in 2019 and
2020, primarily driven by the acquisitions in the
household segment and pool segment and new
product introductions, partially offset from softer
performance from the custom manufacturing
business

A--Actual. E--Estimate. FOCF--Free operating cash
flow.

• Adjusted EBITDA margins in the high single-digit
area through 2020, spurred by volume growth in
household division and ongoing cost-saving
initiatives
• Capex of about US$60 million-US$65 million in 2019
and 2020
• No debt repayment in 2019
• Acquisitions of about US$170 million related to the
N.C Brands acquisition completed in January 2019
• Modest tuck-in acquisitions for 2020

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 3

Kronos Acquisition Holdings Inc.

Base-case projections
Kronos' adjusted EBITDA will remain constrained by cost headwinds. We believe that commodity-related cost
headwinds, and costs related to acquisitions and strategic initiatives, could limit and possibly weaken the company's
EBITDA (S&P Global Ratings' adjusted) and margins in the near term. Accretion from existing acquisitions and price
increases will only partially offset this situation, in our view.
Free cash flow generation will likely be thin in the near term.We anticipate that Kronos will generate thin free cash
flows for the next 12 months, despite some improvement in EBITDA. Therefore, the company will fund future
acquisitions through higher debt rather than cash flows further straining the company's credit measures. We estimate
free cash flow as a percentage of debt to remain weak in low single-digit area for the next 12 months.

Company Description
Concord, Ont.-based Kronos manufactures branded and private-label household cleaning and personal care products,
as well as pool additives and aftermarket auto fluids. In addition, the company is engaged in contract manufacturing of
national branded products for more than 70 different consumer product companies.

Business Risk
Kronos' business risk profile reflects the company's good market position and product diversity in an otherwise
fragmented, competitive, and mature industry, with low growth potential and limited pricing power. The company
mainly competes with large multinational players, with financial resources far in excess of its own. This limits Kronos'
ability to pass on all cost increases, whether raw materials or freight, within a shorter time frame. Some of the
customers particularly in the company's automobile segment are directly indexed to input prices, necessitating Kronos
to alter its pricing based on volatility, which could lead to lower revenues. Our business risk assessment also
incorporates the company's significant customer and geographic concentration, with the six largest customers
representing almost 40% of revenues, and almost 90% of revenues generated in North America. In addition, given the
high seasonal nature of the business, Kronos' operating performance could be negatively affected due to
weather-related fluctuations.
These risks are partially offset by Kronos' strong position; the company has about an 80% market share in the North
American private-label bleach market, about a 40%-45% market share in the automobile antifreeze segment, and is a
leading manufacturer of pool and spa products. Given limited growth prospects, Kronos has reduced its reliance on
private-label bleach and included several household, personal care, and automotive products in its portfolio, further
improving its product diversity. Despite these efforts, we expect Kronos' profitability to be constrained in the high
single-digit area in the near term, which we assess as below average when compared to other companies in the
personal care/household products segment.

Financial Risk
The highly leveraged financial risk profile reflects Kronos' weak credit protection measures and our expectation that
the company's debt to EBITDA will remain elevated above 9.5x in the near term. Given a mature industry, organic

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 4

Kronos Acquisition Holdings Inc.

growth prospects will remain low and we do not expect any material free cash flows. Therefore, our forecast EBITDA
of about US$220 million-US$230 million in 2020 will only cover the company's cash interest costs of US$160
million-US$165 million and capex of approximately US$55 million-US$65 million. We also believe thin free cash flow,
along with a persistently heavy debt load, will pose lower probability of debt repayment and offer less financial
flexibility. In addition, we expect EBITDA interest coverage will remain tight in the low 1x area, which does not leave
much room for potential EBITDA deterioration due to unexpected underperformance or higher-than-anticipated
restructuring costs stemming from Kronos' acquisitive growth strategy. Despite high leverage and tighter EBITDA
interest coverage, we believe Kronos will maintain sufficient liquidity given availability of more than US$200 million
under its ABL as of June 30, 2019.

Financial summary
The company's financials are private and confidential.

Liquidity
We assess Kronos' liquidity as adequate. We expect sources of funds to exceed uses by more than 1.5x in the next 12
months and believe sources of liquidity would exceed uses even in the event of a 15% unexpected decline in the
company's consolidated EBITDA. However, our quantitative liquidity assessment is constrained by certain qualitative
factors, including our belief that Kronos does not have a high standing in the credit markets, nor the ability to absorb
high-impact, low-probability events with limited need for refinancing. However, we believe the company has generally
prudent risk management and sound relationship with banks, because Kronos was successful in issuing an add-on term
loan to fund acquisition.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Cash balance of US$25 million as of June 30, 2019

• Seasonal working capital requirements of US$100
million

• Availability of more than US$200 million under the
company's US$350 million revolving credit facility
• Cash funds from operations of US$25 million-US$35
million

• Capex of US$50 million-US$60 million
• Debt amortization of US$1.9 million each year

Debt maturities
As of June 30 2019, Kronos had the following debt maturities:
• US$1.1 billion term loan due in 2023
• US$890 million senior notes due in 2023
• US$350 million ABL due in 2023

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 5

Kronos Acquisition Holdings Inc.

Covenant Analysis
Compliance expectations
Kronos does not have to comply with any financial covenant unless ABL availability falls below 10% of the available
borrowing base, which then mandates compliance with a minimum fixed-charge coverage ratio of 1x. As of the quarter
ended June 30, 2019, this covenant was not applicable.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• We rate the company's first-lien term loan 'CCC+' with a '3' recovery rating. The '3' recovery rating reflects our
expectation of meaningful recovery (50%-70%; rounded estimate: 55%) in the event of default.
• We rate the company's senior unsecured notes 'CCC-' with a '6' recovery rating. The '6' recovery rating reflects our
expectation of negligible recovery (0%-10%; rounded estimate: 0%) in the event of default.
• Our simulated default scenario incorporates the assumption of a default in 2020, following a prolonged period of
weak macroeconomic conditions, increased competition, loss of key customers, or significant decline in demand.
• In the event of a default, we assume the company would reorganize or be sold as a going concern as opposed to
being liquidated.
• We apply a negative 20% operational adjustment to align with other rated peers.
• We value Kronos using a 5.5x multiple of our emergence EBITDA estimate, which corresponds to the company's
fixed charges in the simulated default year. The EBITDA multiple is 0.5x lower than the industry multiple of 6.0x
reflecting the softer operating performance and increased risk of an EBITDA shortfall.

Simulated default assumptions
• Simulated year of default: 2021
• EBITDA at emergence: US$170.9 million
• EBITDA multiple: 5.5x

Simplified waterfall
• Gross recovery value: US$940.2 million
• Net recovery value (after 5% administrative charges): US$893.2 million
• Priority claims: US$213.9 million
----------------------------------------------------------• Remaining recovery value: US$679.3 million
• Secured first-lien debt: US$1.141 billion
• Value available for first-lien claim: US$679.3 million
• --Recovery expectations: 50%-70% (rounded estimate: 55%)

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 6

Kronos Acquisition Holdings Inc.

• Senior unsecured notes: US$930 million
• Value available for unsecured claim: 0
• --Recovery expectations: 0%-10% (rounded estimate: 0%)

Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Branded Nondurables Industry, May 7, 2015
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate
Issuers, Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Criteria For Assigning 'CCC+', 'CCC', 'CCC-', And 'CC' Ratings, Oct. 1, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Ratings Detail (As Of September 20, 2019)*
Kronos Acquisition Holdings Inc.
Issuer Credit Rating

CCC+/Stable/--

Senior Secured

CCC+

Senior Unsecured

CCC-

Issuer Credit Ratings History
27-Dec-2018

CCC+/Stable/--

09-May-2017

B-/Negative/--

03-Sep-2015

B-/Stable/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 7

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 8

