Continental Building Products Inc.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Kimberly M Garen, New York (1) 212-438-4615; kimberly.garen@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Thomas J Nadramia, New York + 1 (212) 438 3944; thomas.nadramia@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 1

Continental Building Products Inc.
Business Risk: FAIR

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

bb+

bb

bb
BB/Stable/--

Financial Risk: INTERMEDIATE
Highly leveraged

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key Strengths

Key Risks

Low-cost manufacturing position, bolstered by close proximity to large
East Coast housing markets.

Small size (over $500 million in sales), limited product differentiation,
and smaller manufacturing footprint compared to other building
materials producer peers.

Above-average EBITDA margins of close to 25%-30% that we expect to
be sustained.

Price follower, with limited ability to pass on any raw material price
increases in the short term.

Conservative financial policy of maintaining low debt leverage (1.1x as of
June 30) to mitigate cyclical swings in wallboard demand and pricing
during construction downturns.

Approximately 55% of the sales are tied to cyclical new residential
and non-residential construction markets, with the remainder driven
by renovation markets.

Continental Building Products Inc. (CBPX) is among the smaller players in the consolidated wallboard industry, but
with a strong regional presence in the Eastern U.S. Although fairly consolidated, with seven companies accounting for
nearly 100% of the wallboard business in the U.S., the gypsum wallboard industry remains largely a regional business.
About 55% of the U.S wallboard market demand is concentrated to the east of the Mississippi river, which is CBPX's
primary operating location, where it holds about 18% market share.
We expect EBITDA margins to contract in 2019 before bouncing back in 2020. We expect CBPX's margins to face a
decline of about 500-550 bps for FY 2019, primarily driven by a decline in the average sales price, due to heightened
competition from manufacturers and distributors on account of soft demand from U.S construction markets. Margins
have also seen pressure due to inflation in freight and labor costs. However, post-2019, we expect the margins to
improve and stabilize in the 26%-27% range on price recovery coupled with realization of some benefits from the
company's ongoing productivity and cost-savings initiatives. Still, we expect CBPX to have among the highest margins
in the wallboard space, driven by efficient manufacturing operations and close proximity to markets.
Prudent debt leverage levels provide financial flexibility in the event of cyclical downturn.We expect CBPX to maintain
low S&P Global Ratings' adjusted debt to EBITDA below 1.5x over the next 12 months with leverage to continue to
improve if construction markets in the U.S. remain stable. This will allow the company to withstand a moderate
construction downturn while maintaining credit measures that support the current rating. It also provides financial
flexibility to absorb additional debt if a moderate acquisition opportunity avails itself to the company.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 2

Continental Building Products Inc.

Outlook: Stable

The stable outlook reflects S&P Global Ratings' expectation that CBPX will achieve modest wallboard demand and
pricing increases over the next year due to relatively stable housing starts and healthy repair and remodel
spending. We believe this positive momentum will help the company produce steady to slightly increased earnings
and maintain adjusted debt leverage of under 1.5x over the next 12 months.

Downside scenario
We do not believe a downgrade is likely within the next 12 months given our forecast for steady U.S. construction
markets. However, we could lower the rating if adjusted debt leverage trends above 3x. This could occur if CBPX
management adopted more aggressive financial policies--such as leveraged share repurchases or debt-financed
acquisitions--or if U.S. housing softens with starts dipping well below 1 million, causing EBITDA to decline to
levels that would push leverage above 3x. One scenario in which we believe this could occur is if wallboard
volumes and prices both fell 10% due to a housing recession. S&P Global economists assess the risk of a recession
at 25%-30%.

Upside scenario
Given CBPX's small size, limited geographic reach, and very narrow product focus, we view an upgrade as unlikely
over the next year. For a higher rating, we believe CBPX would need to substantially increase its size and diversify
its business. This could occur via a transformative acquisition that would expand the company's product and
geographic diversity while decreasing the potential earnings volatility inherent in the wallboard business.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 3

Continental Building Products Inc.

Assumptions

• Housing starts to increase by 8.3% to 1.3 million in
fiscal 2019 compared to 1.2 million in fiscal 2018
and remain flat in fiscal 2020.
• U.S. GDP growth to slow in 2019 to 2.5%, from 2.9%
in 2018, and to be approximately 1.8% in 2020.
• Residential construction declines 1.3% in 2019 and
then recovers by 1.8% in 2020, with U.S. housing
starts of approximately 1.3 million annually.

Key Metrics

Debt to EBITDA

2018A

2019E

2020E

1.0x

1.1x-1.4x

0.6x-0.9x

FFO to Debt

78.7% 68%-73% 135%-140%

FOCF/Debt

81.20% 70%-75% 135%-140%

FFO--Funds from operations. FOCF--Free operating
cash flow. A--Actual. E--Estimate.

• Low-single-digit percentage growth in repair and
remodel spending;
• A 7% decrease in average selling price of wallboard
by the end of fiscal 2019;
• We expect the company will maintain the modest
capital expenditures (capex) of around $30 million
annually over the next two years;
• We forecast share repurchases of about $29
million-$31 million in fiscal 2019 and about $20
million-$22 million in fiscal 2020;
• There are no annual dividends included in our
assumptions over the next two years; and
• We do not anticipate the company will make any
large acquisitions over the next two years.

Base-case projections
Revenues to decline by about 5%-7% in 2019. We expect a revenue decline due to the fall in wallboard prices;
however, we expect this to be partially offset by a low-single-digit increase in volumes, which is in line with the market
growth. In 2020 we expect mid-single-digit top-line growth in line with improved starts, pricing recovery and repair
and remodel stability.
Adjusted EBITDA of about $110 million-$125 million for 2019 and $130 million-$145 million for 2020. We expect debt
to EBITDA (after S&P Global Ratings' adjustments, including surplus cash and operating leases) of between 1.1x-1.4x
by the end of 2019 and improving to about 0.6x to 0.9x by the end of 2020.
Strong fresh cash flow. After the capex requirements, we expect about $60 million-$65 million of free cash flow in 2019
and around $70 million-$75 million in 2020, which is sufficient to fund a majority of the share repurchases.

Company Description
CBPX manufactures and sells gypsum wallboard and complementary finishing products in the eastern U.S. and eastern
Canada. The company sells its products to gypsum wallboard distributors, buying groups, wholesalers, and mass

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 4

Continental Building Products Inc.

merchants in the new residential, repair and remodel, and commercial construction markets. Gypsum wallboard is a
primary building material used in new residential and commercial construction and repair and remodel. The company
is headquartered in Herndon, Va.

Business Risk: Fair
CBPX is among the lowest-cost producers in the gypsum wallboard sector and has historically enjoyed some of the
highest EBITDA margins compared to peers such as USG Corp. Unlike some of its peers, CBPX uses about 85%
synthetic gypsum, which has the same chemical composition as naturally mined gypsum. However, the cost
associated is almost half compared to that of natural gypsum on a per ton basis. Additionally, the company's plants are
located near coal-fired power plants (which produce synthetic gypsum as a byproduct) as well as to its wallboard end
markets. This provides the company a competitive advantage of lower transportation costs and inventory levels in
both procuring raw materials and servicing its customers. While there seems to be ample availability despite utilities'
recent switching from coal to natural gas-fired plants, there is still ample availability of synthetic gypsum, which CBPX
has procured under long term supply agreements. However, CBPX has secured an additional supply of natural
gypsum, which should act as an alternative to synthetic gypsum and is forecasted to 15% of the company's usage in
fiscal 2019. The company's EBITDA margins of about 27% for the 12 months ending June 30, 2019, reflect the
company's very low-cost manufacturing operations aided by cost-savings initiatives in the building materials space.
Our assessment of CBPX's business recognizes that there is little to no product differentiation among wallboard
producers. Wallboard is viewed largely as a commodity and is subject to stiff price competition. CBPX, given its
smaller size compared to peers, often finds itself a price follower. However, we think the company offsets this
disadvantage by being among the lowest-cost producers, being able to make above-market margins at nearly any price
level.
Wallboard has historically been subject to wide swings in demand and pricing tied to the construction cycle. This leads
to high earnings volatility through business cycles. We expect some volatility in future earnings based on the
choppiness of housing starts growth and CBPX's substantial exposure to the cyclical residential construction sector
(38%) and commercial construction (17%), as well as the relatively stable repair and remodel market.

Peer comparison
Although gypsum wallboard remains a regional industry, due to the high weight-to-value ratio, consolidation in the
industry has resulted in increased market share for the industry participants. Since 1997, CBPX's national market share
has grown to 10% from 2%.
However, the company competes against much larger and well capitalized players with scale, size, geographic, and
manufacturing diversity as well as broader distribution. Some peers that operate in the space are Georgia-Pacific LLC
(GP; A+/Stable/A-1+), Compagnie de Saint-Gobain (BBB/Stable/A-2), Eagle Materials Inc. (BBB/Watch Neg/--),
Knauf Gips KG (unrated), and National Gypsum (unrated).
Georgia-Pacific operates in three segments (consumer products, building products, and cellulose and pulp fiber) and is
much larger in size and geographic breadth. GP's building products segment, which normally makes up about 25% of

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 5

Continental Building Products Inc.

the company's revenues, is composed largely of wood products, lumber, oriented strand board, and interior and
exterior sheathing products. Our assessment of GP's financial risk and policies reflects our forecast that leverage will
continue to be under 2x and funds from operations (FFO) to debt will be 45% or higher for the next two years.
Compagnie de Saint-Gobain operates out of Europe in three segments (innovative materials, construction products,
and building material distribution) and is much larger in size and geographic breadth. Saint-Gobain's construction
products segment is about 30% of consolidated net sales and includes plasterboard and plaster products, insulation,
tile adhesives, industrial mortars, exterior products (roofing and siding), and ductile cast iron pipes. Although the
company's adjusted EBITDA margins are average by industry standard at about 11%, they have exhibited low
volatility. We expect FFO to debt between 25%-30% and leverage between 2.9x-3.1x over the next two years.
Additionally, the company has the ability to generate significant free operating cash flow (FOCF) and has exceeded €1
billion on average over 2011-2018.
Knauf Gips KG, the Germany-based building products manufacturer is unrated and is the owner of USG, the largest
wallboard manufacturer in the industry with about 26% share.
Eagle Materials benefits from a strong distribution network and is able to command and sustain higher margins due to
its low-cost position in wallboard supported through its vertical integration of its recycled paperboard facility. The
company remains on CreditWatch Negative following its decision to separate its heavy materials (cement) and light
materials (wallboard/paper) businesses into two independent, publicly traded corporations. For the 12 months ended
March 31, 2019, the company's heavy materials and light materials segments each generated about $700 million of
revenue, and EBITDA of about $215 million and $265 million, respectively. Eagle has a narrow focus on high-margin
products that generate superior returns relative to other building material-producing peers, with EBITDA margins
above 30% and operated with debt to EBITDA between 1x-2x.

Financial Risk: Intermediate
Based on our forecast, we expect the debt/EBITDA leverage to increase to between 1.1x and 1.4x by end of 2019 from
1.0x in 2018, and we expect EBITDA interest coverage to fall to about 11x by the end of 2019 from about 15x in 2018.
This is based on our expectations of lower EBITDA generation for the company, driven by lower average prices
because of heightened competition coupled with soft macroeconomic conditions. Post-2019, we expect leverage to be
less than 1x as prices and demand recover, and EBITDA interest coverage around 11x. We believe these metrics to be
prudent given the history of large declines in wallboard demand and pricing during recessions.
In addition, we expect the company to continue to generate solid free cash flows of about $60 million-$75 million
annually in 2019 and 2020, providing for potential debt reduction, acquisitions, or share repurchases.
As of June 30, 2019, the company had $126 million of availability under its $300 million share repurchases program.
We expect the company will make annual share repurchases of about $29 million-$31 million in 2019 and about $20
million-$22 million for the subsequent year, while maintaining leverage within our expected range.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 6

Continental Building Products Inc.

Liquidity: Strong
Given our expectations for positive operating performance and cash flow, we view CBPX's liquidity as strong, based on
the following observations and estimates:
• An expectation that liquidity sources (including availability under the company's $75 million revolving credit facility)
will exceed uses by at least 3.14x for the next 12 months and at least 3.95x for the subsequent 12 months.
• An expectation that sources would continue to exceed uses even if EBITDA were to decline by 30%.
• Our view that the company would continue to exceed the availability threshold under its credit facility, even in the
event of a 30% drop in EBITDA.
• In addition, our liquidity assessment incorporates the company's well-established and solid relationship with banks,
its prudent financial risk management, the long-dated maturity on its sole debt, a $275 million bank term loan due in
2023, and ample room under a 5x maximum leverage covenant.

Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• About $110 million of cash and cash equivalents as
of June 30, 2019.

• No material near-term maturity.

• Availability of about $74 revolving credit facilities
due in 2023 as of June 30, 2019.
• About $95 million-$98 million and $100 million-$110
million of FFO in 2019 and 2020, respectively.

• Seasonal working capital requirement of $25 million
per year.
• Capital spending of about $30 million annually over
the next 24 months.
• Share repurchases of about $29 million-$31 million
in fiscal 2019 and about $20 million-$22 million in
fiscal 2020.

Debt maturities
• $275 million senior secured first-lien term loan facility matures on Aug. 18, 2023;
• $75 million senior secured revolving credit facility matures on Aug. 18, 2021.

Covenant Analysis
The company must comply with a maximum net leverage covenant of 5x if outstanding borrowings of the revolver
plus outstanding letters of credit are greater than $22.5 million as of the end of a given quarter.
The sum of outstanding borrowings under the revolver and outstanding letters of credit were less than $22.5 million at
June 30, 2019, and therefore the financial covenant was not applicable.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 7

Continental Building Products Inc.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• The capital structure consists of a $75 million senior secured revolving credit facility due 2021; a $275 million
first-lien senior secured term loan due 2023, and $28 million industrial revenue bonds due in 2025.
• For purposes of our default scenario, we assumed aggregate borrowings of about $64 million under the ABL facility,
representing 60% usage of the $75 million commitment.
• We assess recovery prospects based on a reorganization value of about $331 million.
• Our simulated default scenario contemplates a default in 2024, primarily reflecting a combination of a severe
decrease in volume and price, higher operating costs, and greater competition in the U.S. wallboard industry during
a period of greatly decreased housing starts.

Simulated default assumptions
• Year of default: 2024
• EBITDA at emergence: $66 million
• Implied enterprise value EV: 5x (in line with building products companies)
• Gross EV: $331 million.

Simplified waterfall
• Net EV (post 5% administrative costs): $315 million.
• Estimated senior secured credit facilities claims: $325 million.
• Recovery expectations: 90%-100%; rounded estimate: 95%.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
BB/Stable/--

Business risk: Fair

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Fair
Financial risk: Intermediate

• Cash flow/Leverage: Intermediate
Anchor: bb+
Modifiers

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 8

Continental Building Products Inc.

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: Neutral (no impact)
• Liquidity: Strong (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Negative (-1 notch)
Stand-alone credit profile : bb

Related Criteria
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Building Materials Industry, Dec. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Business Risk Profile

Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly leveraged

Excellent

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

Fair

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Strong
Satisfactory

Ratings Detail (As Of September 23, 2019)*
Continental Building Products Inc.
Issuer Credit Rating

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

BB/Stable/--

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 9

Continental Building Products Inc.

Ratings Detail (As Of September 23, 2019)*(cont.)
Issuer Credit Ratings History
31-Jul-2017

BB/Stable/--

25-Jul-2016

BB-/Positive/--

02-Jul-2015

BB-/Stable/--

Related Entities
Continental Building Products Canada Inc.
Senior Secured

BBB-

Continental Building Products Operating Company, LLC
Senior Secured

BBB-

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 10

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 11

