Tata Chemicals North America Inc.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Edward J Hudson, New York + 1 (212) 438 2764; edward.hudson@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Daniel S Krauss, CFA, New York (1) 212-438-2641; danny.krauss@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Other Credit Considerations
Environmental, Social, And Governance
Group Influence
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 1

Table Of Contents (cont.)
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 2

Tata Chemicals North America Inc.
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

b+
Financial Risk: AGGRESSIVE
Highly leveraged

b

b+

B+/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key Strengths

Key Risks

Strong profitability.

Soda ash production yields a limited product mix.

Low cost structure, as natural soda ash is cheaper to produce than The company operates at only one site, located in Wyoming's Green River
synthetic soda ash produced in China.
Basin.
Leading market position in North American soda ash production.

The company sources all its coal--a key input for production--from a single
mine, whose owner has defaulted on its debt.

Natural soda ash producers, such as Tata Chemicals North America Inc. (TCNA), benefit from a much more
cost-effective process. TCNA's overall low cost structure enables it to maintain wider EBITDA margins than its
commodity chemical peers.
The company continues to benefit from group influence, as we factor in one notch of ratings uplift for our group
assessment of TCNA to Tata Chemicals Ltd. (TCL). TCNA, which is owned by TCL, is a significant contributor to
TCL's EBITDA and we believe that TCL will continue to support this investment.
TCNA maintains favorable credit measures. We expect TCNA to maintain leverage between 2.5x and 3.0x, and funds
from operations (FFO) to debt of 25%-30%.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 3

Tata Chemicals North America Inc.

Outlook: Stable

The stable outlook on TCNA reflects our expectation of flat revenues in 2019, with volume growth in line with U.S.
GDP growth of 2.5%. As a result, we expect to see stable EBITDA margins year over year.
Our base case assumes the company will continue to source the coal it needs through Westmoreland's Kemmerer
Mine, or other suppliers if Westmoreland cannot honor its supply agreement. We assume that the company will
continue to maintain prudent financial policies and, therefore, we have not factored into our analysis any large
debt-funded dividends or acquisitions. At the current rating, we expect FFO to total debt to be in the 25% to 30%
range over the next year, even in periods of seasonal fluctuations.

Downside scenario
We could consider a downgrade within the next year if the company's earnings deteriorate such that FFO to debt
declines to around 12%, with no prospect of improvement. This could occur because of major operating
disruptions, a substantial reduction in demand for soda ash, or if TCNA encounters difficulty sourcing key raw
materials. We could also consider a downgrade if TCNA's sole coal supplier, Westmoreland Coal Co., stopped
supplying coal to TCNA, forcing the company to scramble for another source. Major debt-funded acquisitions or
shareholder returns, or a decrease in support from TCL, could also cause us to lower our ratings on TCNA,
although the likelihood of these actions appears remote.

Upside scenario
We view an upgrade for TCNA over the next 12 months as unlikely. However, we could raise the ratings if the
company can sustain FFO to debt of more than 30% on a sustained basis, and if the company successfully
diversifies its coal supply. We estimate that to achieve this, EBITDA margins would need to improve by at least
400 basis points (bps) above our expectations.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 4

Tata Chemicals North America Inc.

Our Base-Case Scenario
Assumptions

Our base case assumes the company will continue to
source the coal it needs through Westmoreland, or
other suppliers if Westmoreland cannot honor its
supply agreement. We also assume that the company
will maintain prudent financial policies. Therefore, we
have not factored any large debt-funded dividends or
acquisitions into our analysis. At the current rating, we
expect to see FFO to total debt of 25% to 30% over the
next year, even with seasonal fluctuations. Our other
assumptions:

Key Metrics

2018A

2019E

2020E

Debt to EBITDA (x)

3.0 2.5-3.0 2.5-3.0

FFO to debt (%)

29

25-30

25-30

A--Actual. E--Estimated. FFO--Funds from operations.
All figures are S&P Global Ratings adjusted. The 2018
fiscal year ended March 31, 2019.

• In fiscal 2019, we expect a low-single-digit percent
revenue decline due to both planned and unplanned
outages and downtime.
• In fiscal 2020 and beyond we expect single-digit
percent revenue growth in line with U.S. GDP
growth.
• Our forecast is for U.S. GDP growth of 2.5% in 2019,
1.8% in 2020, and 1.9% in 2021, which should
support stable demand for soda ash products.
• We assume no major debt-funded dividends or
acquisitions.
• Annual capital spending will be $35 million to $40
million.
• We expect EBITDA margins to exceed 20% over the
next two years, which is above the average of
TCNM's commodity chemical peers.

Company Description
Tata Chemicals North America Inc. is one of the world's leading producers of high quality soda ash. Soda ash is a
white, anhydrous, powdered or granular material. It is an essential input for making glass (which represents over half of
global soda ash demand), detergents, chemicals, baking soda, and other industrial products. TCNA has long-term
mining leases in the Green River Basin in Wyoming, and estimates that it has more than 100 years of proven trona
reserves (trona is a sodium carbonate mineral that is processed into soda ash). TCNA operates on a single site in
Wyoming and is heavily reliant on Westmoreland Coal. TCNA generates all its revenues from U.S. operations. Tata

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 5

Tata Chemicals North America Inc.

Chemicals Ltd. is the parent company and owns 100% of TCNA.

Business Risk: Weak
TCNA has a single source for all the coal it uses. Although Westmoreland Coal Co. defaulted on its debt in June 2018,
and we no longer rate the company, we understand that it is still operating and honoring its supply contract with
TCNA. However, if TCNA had to find coal elsewhere because of disruptions at Westmoreland, its earnings could falter,
as other suppliers could charge far more than TNCA pays now.
We also consider the company's reliance on a single manufacturing site in the Green River Basin as a key risk. Despite
having two production trains, the company remains susceptible to potential operating disruptions, which would lead to
reductions in EBITDA and cash flow.
TCNA's product diversity is limited because it generates all of its earnings from the production of natural soda ash, and
the soda ash industry is cyclical and prone to major price fluctuations. Competitors have already announced capacity
additions that we expect to come online over the next couple of years, and this could pressure prices.
TCNA benefits from long-term mining leases in the Green River Basin, which accounts for about 90% of U.S. soda ash
production capacity. Natural soda ash producers benefit from a much more cost-effective process that is not nearly as
energy-intensive and requires less capital and fewer raw materials than does the synthetic process (Synthetic soda ash
is made from brine and limestone and much of that production is in China.) The natural process accounts for about
25% of the world's soda ash production and the U.S. holds a substantial portion of the global natural soda ash reserves.
Most soda ash exports are handled by the American Natural Soda Ash Corp. (ANSAC), which allows its member
companies to benefit from economies of scale and provides them with access to markets in more than 30 countries.

Financial Risk: Aggressive
We expect revenues to grow in line with U.S. GDP growth, reflecting the domestic demand for glass, a relatively stable
packaging market, and a slowing auto sector. We expect the organic growth in downstream glassmaking markets to
contribute to TCNA's revenue because soda ash is a major component in glass manufacturing. We expect margins to
remain relatively flat and TCNA to continue to benefit from its low-cost natural soda ash production. Based on our
scenario forecasts, we expect that over the next two years the company will maintain credit measures we consider
appropriate for the current rating, including FFO to total adjusted debt of 25% to 30%, and consistently above 12%
during recessions.
We adjust debt to include unfunded pensions and postretirement obligations, the present value of operating leases,
environmental liabilities, and asset retirement obligations.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 6

Tata Chemicals North America Inc.

Liquidity: Adequate
We expect the company's cash sources to exceed uses by more than 1.2x over the next year and sources minus uses
should remain positive even if EBITDA is 15% less than we project. We expect the company to maintain nearly full
availability under its $25 million revolving credit facility, and to carry moderate cash balances. TCNA is subject to
financial covenants, and we expect the company to maintain at least 15% EBITDA cushion under these. Qualitatively,
we do not believe TCNA has the ability to absorb high-impact, low-probability events without refinancing, and we do
not believe the company has generally high standing in credit markets.

Principal liquidity sources
• Modest cash balances;
• Availability of $25 million under its revolving credit facility; and
• FFO of $80 million to $90 million over the next year.

Principal liquidity uses
• Modest peak working capital outflows;
• Moderate capital spending over the next two years;
• Approximately $40 million to $45 million of annual dividends; and
• Minimal annual debt amortization.

Debt maturities
The company's revolver and term loan mature in August 2020, and if not addressed within six months, this maturity
could hurt the company's ratings. However, we assume that TCNA will be able to refinance in the next few months.

Covenant Analysis
• The company has a minimum EBITDA-to-consolidated net cash interest expense ratio requirement.
• The company also has a net debt-to-EBITDA ratio requirement.
• TCNA is in full compliance with these requirements, and we expect it to maintain ample cushion over the next year.

Other Credit Considerations
We have adjusted our initial 'b+' anchor rating outcome downward by one notch to 'b' for comparable rating analysis.
We based this on our assessment that TCNA's limited product diversity and single site concentration results in the
company being at the lower end of the weak business risk profile scale. We view the company's scale, scope, and
diversity as weaker than a similarly rated company such as Kraton Corp.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 7

Tata Chemicals North America Inc.

Environmental, Social, And Governance

We believe environmental and social factors present risks and opportunities for a specialty chemical producer such
as TCNA. We view the company's environmental and social risks as on par with other chemical companies.
Because TCNA burns coal in its manufacturing processes, it can face environmental and regulatory issues that
could be damaging.
Although we incorporate these assessments into our rating, they do not now affect credit quality, as the company
has no material environmental off-balance sheet liabilities.

Group Influence
Our ratings factor in one notch of uplift for our assessment that TCNA is moderately strategic to parent TCL and a
significant contributor to TCL's EBITDA. We believe that TCL will continue to support this investment, given TCNA's
strategic importance, the shared Tata name, and TCL's history of supporting subsidiaries in times of financial distress.
With that, we arrive at at a final issuer credit rating on TCNA of 'B+'.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• Our senior secured issue-level ratings for TCNA are 'BB', with a recovery rating of '1', indicating expectations for a
very high recovery (90%-100%; rounded estimate: 95%).
• We continue to value the company on a going-concern basis using a 5x multiple of our projected emergence
EBITDA, in line with commodity chemical peers such as TPC Group Inc.
• We estimate that for the company to default, EBITDA would need to decline significantly from current levels,
potentially stemming from an economic contraction or significant raw material price increases, client attrition,
end-market substitutes for glass containers, and unplanned downtime, coupled with declining volume that pressures
margins, working capital, and cash flow. In addition, if TCNA were not able to source coal and operate its facility, it
could significantly hurt earnings.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 8

Tata Chemicals North America Inc.

Simulated default assumptions

Simplified waterfall

• Year of default: 2023

• Net enterprise value (after 5% administrative costs):
$315 million.

• EBITDA at emergence: $73 million
• Implied enterprise value multiple: 5x

• Collateral value available to secured creditors: $315
million
• Senior secured claims: $234 million
• --Recovery expectation: 90%-100%; rounded
estimate: 95%
Notes: Debt amounts include six months of accrued
interest that we assume will be owed at default.
Collateral value includes asset pledges from obligors
(after priority claims) plus equity pledges in
nonobligors. We generally assume usage of 85% for
cash flow and 60% for asset-based lending revolvers at
default.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B+/Stable/--

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Moderately high
• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Aggressive

• Cash flow/Leverage: Aggressive
Anchor: b+
Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral
• Capital structure: Neutral
• Financial policy: Neutral
• Liquidity: Adequate
• Management and governance: Fair

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 9

Tata Chemicals North America Inc.

• Comparable rating analysis: Negative (-1 notch)
Stand-alone credit profile : b

• Entity status within group: Moderately strategic (+1 notch from SACP)

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Methodology For Linking Long-Term And Short-Term Ratings, April 7, 2017
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, July 1, 2019
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, April 1, 2019
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Business Risk Profile

Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly leveraged

Excellent

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

Strong

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Satisfactory
Fair

Ratings Detail (As Of September 24, 2019)*
Tata Chemicals North America Inc.
Issuer Credit Rating

B+/Stable/--

Senior Secured

BB

Issuer Credit Ratings History
30-Jun-2017

B+/Stable/--

20-Jul-2016

B+/Positive/--

23-Jul-2013

B+/Stable/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 10

Tata Chemicals North America Inc.

Ratings Detail (As Of September 24, 2019)*(cont.)
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 11

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 12

