Mitel Networks (International) Ltd.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Silverius Miralles, Toronto + 1 (416) 507 2505; silverius.miralles@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Aniki Saha-Yannopoulos, CFA, PhD, Toronto (1) 416-507-2579; aniki.saha-yannopoulos@spglobal.com
Research Assistant:
Ranita Saha, Pune

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 1

Mitel Networks (International) Ltd.
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b

b

b

B/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key strengths

Key risks

Growing revenue base from more stable cloud and
software solutions.

High exposure to the declining on-premise segment.

Modest free operating cash flow (FOCF) generation.

Competition from telephony equipment providers, such as Cisco Systems Inc. and
Microsoft Corp., which are much larger in scale.
High financial risk tolerance from financial sponsor ownership.

The company enjoys stable adjusted EBITDA margins from cost synergies and an increasing recurring revenue base.
Mitel Networks (International) Ltd. (Mitel) increasing exposure to recurring cloud revenues reflects the growing
importance of the company's cloud-based platform (about 25% as of the second-quarter 2019) and the benefits from
the ShoreTel Inc. acquisition. The cloud business segment has a subscription-based model, and is expected to provide
cash flow visibility and earnings stability in the long term. At the same time, S&P Global Ratings anticipates the
company will realize cost synergies from the ShoreTel acquisition, which will be EBITDA accretive. Based on the
above factors, we expect Mitel to maintain consistent adjusted EBITDA margins of 19%-22% over the next two years,
which will support its debt-repaying capacity.
Mitel operates in a highly competitive market. The company's product offerings are relatively undifferentiated, driven
by its commodity-type solutions, thus leading to limited pricing power. Mitel competes with bigger players that have
larger product suites and integrated services. Given the limited services that it offers and the small- and midmarket
segment that it caters to, the company operates in a niche segment of the global business telephony market compared
with bigger players such as like Cisco and Microsoft. In addition, with the technological evolution in the industry and
continuing shift toward the cloud platform, we believe that Mitel will face further competitive pressure from both small
and large players in the cloud business.
Given high leverage and financial sponsor ownership, the company has limited financial flexibility as it transitions to a
cloud-based business model. After the leveraged buyout (LBO) transaction by Searchlight Capital Partners (SCP) in
2018, Mitel's leverage (adjusted debt-to-EBITDA) increased to about 7x from our previous expectation of 3.5x-4.0x,
and we expect it to remain above 6x over the next 12 months. Given the company's higher debt burden, in our
opinion, Mitel has limited financial flexibility to accommodate any operational underperformance at a time when it is
transitioning its business model from on-premise (which contributes about two-thirds of EBITDA) to cloud services. At

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 2

Mitel Networks (International) Ltd.

the same time, we expect the company's ability to navigate through technological evolution in the underlying industry
could be a key factor in determining the direction of our rating on Mitel.

Outlook: Stable

The stable outlook reflects our view that Mitel's credit metrics will remain stable over the next 12 months, with
adjusted debt-to-EBITDA at about 6.5x-7.0x, driven by the company's ability to achieve cost synergies and manage
the transition to cloud-based offerings, which will support the company's EBITDA growth. At the same time, our
rating also incorporates our view of the company's ability to generate positive FOCF, which is sufficient to cover
Mitel's fixed charges over the next 12 months. In addition, we believe the company's financial sponsor ownership
will determine Mitel's financial strategy, thereby keeping leverage measures above 5x.

Downside scenario
We could lower the rating in the next 12 months if Mitel's adjusted debt-to-EBITDA remains above 7x or adjusted
FOCF-to-debt declines and stays below 3% without any prospects for improvement. This could result from a more
competitive landscape, slower ramp up of the company's cloud-based service offering, or steeper-than-expected
declines in Mitel's on-premise business that lead to lower-than-anticipated EBITDA generation. We could also
lower our rating if it appears likely that the company will pursue an aggressive financial policy or draw on its
revolver such that it does not have a covenant cushion of at least 15%.

Upside scenario
We are unlikely to raise our rating on Mitel over the next 12 months, based on our expectation that the company's
adjusted debt-to-EBITDA will remain above 6x. Nevertheless, we could raise the rating if Mitel's adjusted
debt-to-EBITDA falls below 5x and the company sustains FOCF-to-debt above 10%, spurred by substantial debt
repayment from its internally generated cash flows or higher-than-anticipated EBITDA generation. At the same
time, we would also expect the financial sponsor to demonstrate and commit to a conservative financial policy
such that credit measures remain below 5x on a sustained basis.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 3

Mitel Networks (International) Ltd.

Assumptions

Key Metrics

• Low single-digit GDP growth in the U.S., Canada,
and Europe over the next 12-24 months.
• The communications industry expands in the low
single-digit area with stronger growth potential from
the cloud-based telephony business and a declining
market in the on-premise segment over the next
12-24 months.
• A flat-to-low single-digit revenue decline in
2019-2020, reflecting continuing declines in the
on-premise segment, partially offset by growth in the
cloud segment.

2018A*

2019E

2020E

Adjusted EBITDA margins

11.5%

19%-20%

22%-23%

Adjusted debt-to-EBITDA

104.7x

6.5x-7.0x

5.5x-6.0x

Adjusted FOCF-to-debt

(3.9%) 5.0%-5.5% 8.0%-10%

*Fiscal 2018 figures are on a five-month basis post the
closing of the LBO transaction last year. However, on a
pro forma basis, adjusted debt-to-EBITDA could be
about 6.5x-7.0x. A--Actual. E--Estimated.

• Realized annual net cost synergies of about US$60
million-US$65 million in 2019 and incremental net
synergies of US$20 million-US$25 million in 2020,
spurred by additional cost synergies identified in
2019 and lower restructuring costs.
• Adjusted EBITDA margins of about 19%-22% in
2019-2020, reflecting benefits from improved scale,
an increased portion of recurring and cloud stream
revenues, and cost synergies realization.
• Capital expenditures of US$25 million-US$30 million
in 2019-2020.
• Cash is not netted against debt because the
company is financial sponsor-owned.

Base-case projections
Slower EBITDA generation over the next 12 months reduces the company's pace of deleveraging. We have adjusted our
previous expectations of flat-to-low single-digit revenue growth, and we now forecast that revenue will decline in the
low single-digit area over the next 12 months, primarily due to the delay of a large customer (on-premise) contract
implementation and tougher industry conditions for the on-premise segment. As a result, EBITDA growth is lower than
anticipated, slowing the pace of deleveraging on the company's balance sheet by 0.2x-0.3x in 2019. We expect the
company's deleveraging strategy to be driven by EBITDA growth rather than any material debt reduction over the
next 12-24 months; as a result, we anticipate adjusted debt-to-EBITDA will be about 6.5x-7.0x over the next 12
months.
Free cash flow generation supports credit quality; however, financial sponsor ownership constrains the rating. We
expect Mitel to generate positive FOCF of about US$50 million-US$60 million in 2019, increasing to about US$100
million-US$120 million in 2020, reflecting low capital intensity and lower working capital cash outflow. In addition, in
2020 we expect higher net cost synergies realization will accrete to higher EBITDA generation, supporting Mitel's
higher FOCF generation. Therefore, we believe the near-term weaker EBITDA generation is partly offset by the
successful realization of cost synergies, thus preserving the company's debt-repaying capacity. As a result, the

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 4

Mitel Networks (International) Ltd.

company has sufficient cushion to cover its first-lien term loan debt amortization over the next 12-24 months.
Nevertheless, we expect Mitel's financial sponsor ownership to weigh on the company's credit quality, driven by the
sponsor's high financial risk tolerance. In addition, we believe that SCP might pursue policies that could weaken credit
measures without reinvestment.

Company Description
Mitel provides cloud and on-site business communications and collaboration software, services, and solutions. A
typical solution consists of a combination of Internet protocol (IP) phones, switches, software applications, and
support. The company can deploy the solution on a customer's premises (a unified communication or "UC" solution),
or deploy in a cloud environment and bill on a monthly basis (a unified-communication-as-a-service or "UCAAS"
solution).

Business Risk: Weak
Mitel operates in a highly competitive and fragmented telephony business communications industry that is going
through technological evolution with the delivery platform moving to the cloud and the revenue opportunity shifting to
a software-as-a-service model. In our view, the 2017 acquisition of ShoreTel has improved the company's scale and
increased Mitel's exposure to recurring and cloud revenues. We view this to be credit supportive because it has
improved the company's competitive position by increasing Mitel's scale and adding more product capabilities on the
cloud platform, allowing the company to compete with bigger and more integrated players, such as Microsoft and
Cisco.
We believe market conditions in the hardware-based IP telephony market remain difficult due to the increasing
commoditization of certain communication products; and a shift toward software-based and hosted communication
solutions that are attracting new competitors, including large pure-play software vendors such as Microsoft, as well as
hosted communication service providers. These conditions, among others, have resulted in recent revenue declines at
most communications solutions providers. However, increasing cloud penetration has partially offset the declines from
the on-premise segment, thus supporting our view of low single-digit growth in the underlying industry.
We expect Mitel to derive a higher proportion of revenues from cloud and software solutions (24% in 2018, up from
19% in 2017), a growing market segment, which we view as credit positive. Furthermore, cloud-based solutions ensure
high predictability of cash flows, driven by Mitel's contractual relationship with customers (contracts run for an
average of three-to-five years) and strong customer retention rates above 95%. Nevertheless, we expect the
on-premise segment (where revenues are expected to decline in the low-teens area annually) to contribute about
two-thirds of the company's cash flows, which will continue to weigh on revenue growth in the near term. In our
base-case assumptions, we expect the structural decline in Mitel's on-premise segment will be partially offset by the
growth in the company's cloud segment. We expect the company to realize net cost synergies of about US$60
million-US$65 million in 2019, and incremental net cost synergies of US$20 million-US$25 million in 2020, thus
enhancing Mitel's adjusted EBITDA margins and cash flow generation, and improving the company's credit measures.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 5

Mitel Networks (International) Ltd.

Peer comparison
The most comparable peer to Mitel is Avaya Holdings Corp., a direct competitor in the telephony space. We have
assigned the same issuer credit rating (B/Stable/--) to both companies, supported by their operations in a highly
competitive market, increasing share of cloud-based revenues, and similar level of leverage.
Cisco (AA-/Stable/A-1+) and Microsoft (AAA/Stable/A-1+) have larger scale, better product diversity, strong brand
recognition, and stronger credit measures, which support higher ratings.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
Our financial risk profile assessment reflects the high adjusted debt-to-EBITDA ratio and ownership by financial
sponsor SCP. In our view, SCP has a high tolerance for financial risk and we believe it might pursue policies that could
weaken Mitel's credit measures. As a result, Mitel could use part of its free cash flow for shareholder returns ahead of
debt repayment, leading to leverage sustained over 5x. We believe the current capital structure post the LBO
transaction imposes higher fixed charges on the company, while Mitel is in the midst of transitioning its business
model to a cloud-based offering from on-premise. At the same time, rapid technology changes could impose higher
risk on Mitel's growth aspirations, in part because customers evaluate digital transformation strategies to achieve a
better integrated solution with customer relationship management systems, thus affecting the company's EBITDA
generation. As a result, Mitel has limited financial flexibility to accommodate any operational underperformance.
Nevertheless, we still expect the company to generate positive FOCF over the next 12 months, which we view to be
sufficient to cover its first-lien debt amortization of about US$11.2 million annually.

Liquidity: Adequate
We assess the company's liquidity as adequate because we expect Mitel's sources of liquidity to cover uses by at least
2x over the next 12 months. We also expect that sources would exceed uses even if EBITDA were to decline by 15%.
In addition, other qualitative factors that support our liquidity assessment are Mitel's likely ability to absorb
high-impact, low-probability events with limited need for refinancing; sound relationships with banks; and prudent risk
management.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• A cash balance of about US$26 million as of the
second-quarter 2019

• Capital expenditures of US$25 million-US$30 million
annually

• Availability of about US$70 million on the
company's revolving credit facility of US$100 million
maturing in 2023

• Working capital cash outflow of about US$5
million-US$10 million

• Funds from operations of about US$110
million-US$120 million in the next 12 months

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

• Scheduled debt amortization on the first-lien debt of
about US$11.2 million annually

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 6

Mitel Networks (International) Ltd.

Debt maturities
Mitel's debt maturities are as follows:
• About US$11.2 million annually from fiscal years 2019-2024
• About US$1.3 billion thereafter

Covenant Analysis
Compliance expectations
We believe Mitel will maintain at least a 15% EBITDA cushion on its financial covenants.

Requirements
The company's revolver has a springing maximum first-lien senior secured leverage ratio of 6.25x when the revolver
utilization exceeds 35%. There are otherwise no financial maintenance covenants on the first- or second-lien term
loans.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• Our simulated default scenario incorporates the assumption that Mitel will default in 2022, reflecting intense
competition and that technological evolution will lead to margin deterioration.
• We assume that Mitel would be reorganized or be sold as a going concern as opposed to being liquidated because
the company would likely retain greater value as an ongoing entity.
• We believe that if the company were to default, there would remain a viable business model due to Mitel's large
customer base, which will eventually transition to the cloud.
• Our recovery analysis yields a net default enterprise value of US$667 million, based on a 5.5x multiple of US$127.6
million of emergence EBITDA estimate and 5% administrative expenses.
• We have used minimum capital expenditures of 0.5% as a percent of sales compared with the 2.0% default
assumption, reflecting that, on the path to default, the company will require lower levels of maintenance capital
expenditures.
• The EBITDA multiple is 0.5x lower than the industry multiple of 6.0x, reflecting our view that the company has a
niche focus on the small and midsize market of the business telephony industry.
• We have used a negative 10% operational adjustment to reflect our view that the company would have a lower level
of EBITDA on the path to default.
• Due to this, the first-lien senior secured claims have a '3' recovery rating, indicating our expectation for meaningful
(50%-70%; rounded estimate: 50%) recovery in the event of a default, leading to an issue-level rating of 'B'.
• After servicing the first-lien senior secured claims, there would be no value available to be distributed to the
second-lien senior secured claims. Therefore, the second-lien senior secured claims has a '6' recovery rating,
indicating our expectation of negligible (0%-10%; rounded estimate: 0%) recovery in the event of default, resulting
in an issue-level rating of 'CCC+'.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 7

Mitel Networks (International) Ltd.

Simulated default assumptions
• Simulated year of default: 2022
• EBITDA at emergence: US$127.6 million
• EBITDA multiple: 5.5x
• Gross recovery value: US$702 million

Simplified waterfall
• Net enterprise value (after 5% administrative costs): US$667 million
• Valuation split in % (obligors/non-obligors): 100/0
• Value available to first-lien debt claims (obligor/non-obligor): US$667 million
• Secured first-lien debt claims: US$1.21 billion
• --Recovery expectations: 50%-70% (rounded estimate: 50%)
• Value available to second-lien secured claims : 0
• Total second-lien secured claims: US$274.6 million
• --Recovery expectations: 0%-10% (rounded estimate: 0%)
All debt amounts include six months of prepetition interest.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B/Stable/--

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Moderately high
• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: b
Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: FS-6 (no additional impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 8

Mitel Networks (International) Ltd.

• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)

Related Criteria
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, April 1, 2019
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Technology Hardware And Semiconductors Industry,
Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, July 1, 2019
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Business Risk Profile
Excellent
Strong

Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Satisfactory
Fair

Ratings Detail (As Of September 11, 2019)*
Mitel Networks (International) Ltd
Issuer Credit Rating

B/Stable/--

Issuer Credit Ratings History
25-Jun-2018

B/Stable/--

Related Entities
MLN US HoldCo LLC
Senior Secured

B

Senior Secured

CCC+

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 9

Mitel Networks (International) Ltd.

Ratings Detail (As Of September 11, 2019)*(cont.)
*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 10

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 11, 2019 11

