Minneapolis-St. Paul Metro Airports
Commission, Minnesota; Airport
Primary Credit Analyst:
Scott Shad, Centennial (1) 303-721-4941; scott.shad@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Todd R Spence, Farmers Branch (1) 214-871-1424; todd.spence@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Rationale
Outlook
Enterprise Risk
Financial Risk

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 16, 2019 1

Minneapolis-St. Paul Metro Airports Commission,
Minnesota; Airport
Credit Profile
US$184.935 mil subord arpt rev & rev rfdg bnds (governmental/non-AMT) ser 2019A due 01/01/2049
Long Term Rating

A+/Stable

New

US$109.62 mil subord arpt rev & rev rfdg bnds (private activity/AMT) ser 2019B due 01/01/2049
Long Term Rating

A+/Stable

New

US$34.025 mil subord arpt rev rfdg bnds (private activity/non-AMT) ser 2019C due 01/01/2028
Long Term Rating

A+/Stable

New

Rationale
S&P Global Ratings assigned its 'A+' long-term rating to the Minneapolis-St. Paul Metro Airports Commission (MAC),
Minn.'s estimated $328.6 million series 2019 subordinate airport revenue and revenue refunding bonds, issued for the
Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport (MSP). At the same time, S&P Global Ratings affirmed its 'AA-' long-term
rating on the airport's senior airport revenue bonds, and its 'A+' long-term rating on the airport's subordinate airport
revenue bonds outstanding. The outlook is stable.
The ratings reflect our opinion of MSP's very strong enterprise risk profile and strong financial risk profile. The ratings
also reflect a positive holistic analysis adjustment we apply to accurately reflect the overall creditworthiness of MSP,
given its relatively high enplanement levels. We expect these will continue due to the airport's dominant role and
strategic importance in the state and surrounding regions, with a large origin and destination (O&D) base serving an
expanding metro area, and steady commitment from Delta Air Lines Inc. The ratings also reflect a history of fiscally
conservative financial management practices that we expect to produce relatively favorable total debt service
coverage (DSC).
The very strong enterprise risk profile reflects MSP's essential role as the dominant airport in the region, with high
activity levels serving a large, growing, and economically vibrant service area with minimal competition and a
moderate airline cost structure. Although there is significant air carrier concentration as a Delta hub, the airline
use-and-lease agreement contains a commitment from Delta to maintain hubbing and minimum flight-to-fleet levels.
Our financial risk profile assessment reflects our expectation that MSP will maintain strong DSC (S&P Global
Ratings-calculated) and liquidity, and very strong debt capacity as it funds its $1.2-billion, seven-year capital
improvement plan (CIP). The airport plans to fund a manageable $303 million of its CIP with new debt, including $203
million from the series 2019 bonds, which will also refinance a portion of its bonds outstanding. We have incorporated
this additional leverage into our analysis by considering pro forma metrics.
The enterprise risk profile reflects our view of the airport's:
• Very strong market position. The airport has an economically deep and diverse service area, relatively high activity
levels (18.4 million enplanements in fiscal 2018), limited competition, moderate cost structure, and generally

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 16, 2019 2

Minneapolis-St. Paul Metro Airports Commission, Minnesota; Airport

favorable enplanement trends. High air carrier concentration as a Delta hub tempers this assessment;
• Extremely strong service area economic fundamentals, which include favorable economic activity as measured by
GDP per capita, a large population of approximately 3.6 million in the Minneapolis-St. Paul-Bloomington
metropolitan statistical area (MSA), above-average expected population growth, and unemployment rates that are
lower than the national average;
• Low industry risk relative to that of other industries and sectors; and
• Extremely strong management and governance, with management achieving a steady track record of managing
MSP. We consider management's financial planning and risk management practices to be sophisticated, somewhat
conservative, and supportive of credit quality, as well as fitting with the complexities inherent in operating a
large-hub airport.
The financial risk profile reflects our view of the airport's:
• Strong financial performance, as evidenced by DSC (S&P Global Ratings-calculated) that has steadily improved to
2.6x in fiscal 2018 from 1.8x in fiscal 2014, and that we expect will decline but remain strong at about 1.6x despite a
step-up in debt service and also including the effects of the series 2019 bonds and additional debt in 2022;
• Very strong debt and liabilities capacity, with debt to net revenues that we expect will remain within a range of
5x-10x, near historical levels, including the effects of the proposed series 2019 bonds and the airport's manageable
additional debt plans to support its CIP; and
• Strong liquidity and financial flexibility, reflecting our expectation that management will maintain liquidity of at least
$190 million in fiscal 2019, or 350 days' cash on hand and 11% of debt outstanding (including the 2019 bonds),
following a planned spenddown to fund a portion of its CIP needs and other postemployment benefits (OPEB)
liabilities.
The airport system's net revenues secure the bonds. Senior bonds are secured by a senior lien on, and pledge of, the
system's net revenues. Subordinate bonds are secured by a subordinate lien on, and pledge of, the system's net
revenues. As of July 2019, MSP had approximately $1.45 billion of debt secured by net revenues. This includes $681
million in senior-lien debt; $652 million in subordinate-lien debt; and $114 million of notes outstanding, including a $71
million draw from the airport's credit facility with Wells Fargo N.A. The credit facility provides for the issuance of up to
$150 million of subordinate revolving obligations. All debt is fixed-rate, and MSP has no exposure to swaps,
variable-rate debt, or privately placed bonds. We expect the airport's total debt will peak at approximately $1.68 billion
by fiscal 2019, then decline as debt rolls off, even given the potential issuance of $100 million in fiscal 2022.
Proceeds from the series 2019 bonds will fund various capital improvement projects, primarily in Terminal 1; refund
and defease the senior-lien series 2009A, 2009B, 2010A, 2010B bonds, and subordinate-lien series 2010C and 2010D
bonds; and repay approximately $20.6 million from its outstanding credit agreement with Wells Fargo. In addition, the
series 2019 bond proceeds will fund capitalized interest, a debt service reserve, and pay issuance costs. The
anticipated par amount of the series 2019 bonds is $328.6 million, consisting of approximately $125.6 million for the
refinancing and $203.0 million in new money for the capital improvement projects.
We consider the bond provisions credit neutral. The senior-lien additional bonds test (ABT) is based on historical
figures. The subordinate-lien ABT, unlike the senior-lien ABT, is more typical of those seen in subordinate-lien

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 16, 2019 3

Minneapolis-St. Paul Metro Airports Commission, Minnesota; Airport

issuances by other airports. However, S&P Global Ratings analyzes MSP's combined DSC figure, for senior and
subordinate, in determining credit quality.
The airport provides air transportation services for the Minneapolis-St. Paul-Bloomington MSA, which is the 16th
largest MSA in the U.S., as well as the surrounding catchment area. The airport system is composed of MSP, which is
the major commercial airport for the service area and in Minnesota; and six general-aviation facilities: St. Paul
Downtown, Flying Cloud, Crystal, Anoka County/Blaine, Lake Elmo, and Airlake airports. In fiscal 2018, the airport
system had total operating revenues of $373.3 million and 18.4 million enplaned passengers.

Outlook
The stable outlook reflects our view that MSP's enplanement levels will remain at about 18 million, supporting stable
financial metrics even given modest additional debt needs during the next two years.

Upside scenario
We do not expect to raise the rating during the outlook period due to high airline carrier concentration and exposure
to connecting traffic as a Delta hub, along with manageable additional debt needs.

Downside scenario
We could lower the rating if enplanement levels drop significantly, or debt capacity materially weakens as the airport
debt-finances its CIP.

Enterprise Risk
Our assessment of the enterprise risk profile considers MSP's service area economic fundamentals, industry risk,
market position, and management and governance.

Economic fundamentals
The airport's primary service area, the Minneapolis-St. Paul-Bloomington MSA, has what we consider extremely strong
economic fundamentals. Favorable indicators include the MSA's estimated GDP per capita of approximately $74,268;
estimated unemployment rate of 2.7%, compared with the U.S. rate of 3.9%; population of over 3.6 million; and
three-year projected population growth rate that, at 2.6%, is more than the U.S. population's three-year projected
growth rate. We anticipate that the service area's economic fundamentals will continue to promote strong demand for
O&D air travel at MSP.
We consider the MSA broad and diverse. With steady job gains, low unemployment, and a generally strong private
sector anchored by 18 well-known Fortune 500 companies, the city's employment base remains strong and diversified.
As of the third quarter of 2018, the largest industries by share of total jobs included health care and social assistance
(18.6% of total employment), professional and technical services (11.5%), finance and insurance (10.1%), educational
services (9.3%), and accommodation and food services (8.7%).

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 16, 2019 4

Minneapolis-St. Paul Metro Airports Commission, Minnesota; Airport

Market position
We consider MSP's overall market position very strong. This reflects our view of the airport's relatively high activity
levels due to its important service provision to a large, diverse, and economically prosperous primarily O&D market,
as well as its role as an important connecting hub for Delta. MSP's market position benefits from the lack of significant
competition within its primary service area. However, tempering our assessment is MSP's high air carrier
concentration (Delta accounted for approximately 71% of total enplanements in fiscal 2018) and moderately high
exposure to connecting passengers (39% of total enplanements).
MSP was the 16th-busiest U.S. airport by enplaned passengers in 2018. From fiscal years 2009-2017, the airport's total
enplanements rose every year from 15.6 million to 18.4 million, respectively, increasing 2.1%, on average, per year.
Enplanement levels remained flat in fiscal 2018 at 18.4 million--largely attributable to Delta shifting strategy for
connecting enplanements, which have since stabilized. Consequently, for the first six-months of 2019, enplanements
are up 2.9% compared with the same period in 2018. The primary factor for the historical enplanement growth was
O&D enplaned passengers, not connecting traffic, as a result of the expansion of service offerings from low-cost and
ultra-low-cost carriers, coupled with strong demand from the service area. For example, MSP's O&D enplaned
passenger market share increased to 11.3 million, or 61.2% of enplanements, in fiscal 2018 from 8.3 million, or 53.5%,
in fiscal 2009, an increase of 3.0 million versus total enplanement growth of 2.9 million during the same period. We
view this favorably due to less reliance on connecting passengers as a Delta hub.
MSP is the only major commercial airport for the service area and in Minnesota, with minimal competition from
regional airports. The nearest large hub airport, Chicago O'Hare International, is 396 miles away. In addition to the
expansion of low-cost carriers, MSP's O&D enplanement growth is also partially attributable to serving a diverse and
expanding local economy. MSP, in Hennepin County, is in the strong, diverse service area economy of the
Minneapolis-St. Paul-Bloomington MSA, which serves as a regional economic center for the upper Midwest states. The
economy is anchored by service, trade, and manufacturing. Hennepin County is an integral part of a strong regional
economy that continues to outperform the nation.
Despite strong enplanement growth, there is high air carrier concentration because MSP is the second-largest Delta
hub in terms of weekly scheduled domestic departing seats in the U.S., behind Atlanta. In fiscal 2018, the leading
carrier with the largest market share of enplanements was Delta, at 71%, which we consider very concentrated when
compared with that of peers. We believe Delta's commitment to MSP through its use-and-lease agreement, particularly
the hub covenant, partially mitigates this concentration. Sun Country Airlines held the second-largest market share at
6.4%, and American Airlines was third at 5.7%.
The concentration of Delta in terms of traffic volume and as a revenue generator remains a credit risk, in our opinion.
However, Delta has some legal and financial incentives to continue its significant presence at MSP and use it as an
important connecting hub in its domestic and international route system. These include a covenant in the airline lease
agreements between Delta and MSP that expire in 2030 agreeing to maintain a certain level of daily departing flights
from the airport (the hubbing covenant) and favorable gate and concession revenue-sharing agreements. We expect
Delta's commitment to the airport to remain steady, comparable with historical activity levels; however, a significant
reduction in activity or service levels could be a credit risk. In particular, should the airline cut its MSP operations,
emphasizing other hubs in its system, we would view the market position as moderately weaker.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 16, 2019 5

Minneapolis-St. Paul Metro Airports Commission, Minnesota; Airport

In our view, MSP maintains good pricing power. A history of prudent cost management supports this view. The cost
per enplaned passenger (CPE), as per our calculations, was about $6.77 in fiscal 2018, up slightly from $6.27 in fiscal
2017 due to flat enplanement levels. The airport has historically maintained CPE at similarly moderate and stable
levels, and we expect it will stay below $9 following the series 2019 bonds and the additional proposed debt in fiscal
2022, allowing MSP to maintain strong pricing power and rate-setting flexibility.

Management and governance
The managerial and governance assessment reflects the airport's strategic positioning; risk management and financial
management; and organizational effectiveness.
Management has a track record of meeting or exceeding its strategic financial targets. MSP has a formal target to
maintain DSC of 2.4x on senior airport revenue bonds and all-in DSC of 1.4x (both as per the indenture). The airport
also maintains a six-month operations and maintenance reserve, funds a DSC account, and has an informal target to
maintain 365 days' cash. In addition, MSP has a goal to maintain a CPE in the lower third of large-hub airports. We
believe management's financial planning practices and policies have contributed to the airport's good financial
performance, and maintenance of financial metrics that support the current rating.
MSP calculates airline rates and charges according to a hybrid rate-making methodology. We consider the
use-and-lease agreements credit neutral. However, the hubbing covenant provides some strength to the Delta
agreement. MSP and the airlines are finalizing new agreements, which are expected to be completed by the end of
2019 with no material changes from the existing agreements. Delta's use-and-lease agreement runs until 2030; for
non-hub carriers, the use-and-lease agreements run through 2023 or 2030.
We consider the management team very experienced and effective in running all aspects of the airport. Management
provides strong financial oversight and conservative debt management practices, with all debt fixed-rate and no
variable-rate debt or swaps.

Financial Risk
Our assessment of MSP's financial risk profile as strong reflects the airport's strong financial performance, very strong
debt and liabilities capacity, and strong liquidity and financial flexibility. We considered MSP's historical performance
and pro forma figures that reflect the effect of the proposed series 2019 bonds and the airport's additional debt plans in
2022. Our financial profile assessment also considers MSP's financial policies, which we consider credit neutral.
We evaluated the financial forecast that was done in connection with the proposed series 2019 bond issue. The
forecast, in our opinion, assumes reasonable enplanement growth of 1.2% from 2019-2025, comparable with the
airport's historical compound annual enplanement growth rate of 1.2% from 2008-2018, and relatively stable CPE. If
actual enplanements are lower than forecast, we expect the airline cost structure could be higher than the peak $8.69
per enplanement forecast in fiscal 2025. However, we expect MSP's financial metrics (i.e., DSC, debt to net revenue,
days' cash on hand, and unrestricted reserves to debt) over the forecast period (2019-2025) will be comparable with
historical levels.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 16, 2019 6

Minneapolis-St. Paul Metro Airports Commission, Minnesota; Airport

Our numerator calculation for DSC and for net revenue used for debt to net revenue is the same, adding interest
income and PFC revenues applied to debt service to EBIDA. However, our calculation excludes transfers from the
coverage fund as compared to the indenture.

Financial performance
Our financial performance assessment reflects our expectation that DSC (S&P Global Ratings-calculated) will remain
strong despite a step-up in debt service, and including the effects of the proposed series 2019 bonds and potential
additional debt in fiscal 2022. Historically, MSP's DSC has been steadily improving, bolstered by increasing net
revenues, and modestly declining debt service since fiscal 2014. For example, DSC improved to 2.6x in fiscal 2018
from 1.8x in fiscal 2014. However, debt service in fiscal 2019 steps up considerably to about $136 million, and
escalates to $153 million at the end of the forecast period in fiscal 2025. Despite this increase, we expect DSC, per our
calculations, to remain strong at about 1.6x during the forecast period, including the effects of the proposed series
2019 bond issue and additional debt in fiscal 2022. Our DSC metrics, like the airport's, evaluate coverage of all
senior-lien and subordinate-lien obligations. Bond indenture DSC, which includes transfers from the coverage fund in
the numerator, was 2.07x and 2.42x for fiscal years 2017 and 2018, respectively. Management forecasts DSC, per the
indenture, of 1.86x in fiscal 2019.
We believe MSP's good degree of rate-setting flexibility supports its ability to maintain strong coverage levels. MSP
maintains moderate CPE compared with that of other airports of similar size. Furthermore, the airport faces little
competition within its service area. These factors, in addition to manageable debt needs, afford MSP a relatively strong
degree of rate-setting flexibility.

Debt and liabilities
We assess MSP's debt and liabilities capacity as very strong, based on debt-to-net-revenue metrics, per our
calculations, of 6.7x in fiscal 2018. We expect they will remain within a range of 5x-10x, as modest anticipated growth
in net revenues along with amortization of existing debt will likely offset the additional debt MSP will issue to support
its CIP. We expect the airport's total debt outstanding will climb to $1.68 billion by fiscal 2019, then decline as debt
rolls off, even given the anticipated 2022 bond issuance.
Management updates its seven-year CIP annually, with the latest update for the 2019-2025 CIP adopted by MSP in
December 2018, providing a roadmap for implementing the component projects, including targeted completion dates,
budgets, and anticipated funding plan. The total cost of the updated CIP is about $1.2 billion. Key larger components
of the airport's 2019-2025 CIP include Terminal 1 maintenance and improvements ($434.3 million), baggage claim and
ticket lobby operational improvements ($192.4 million), and airfield and runway improvements ($108.3 million).
Following the issuance of the series 2019 bonds, MSP's current plans indicate that it will fund approximately $100
million of the CIP with additional subordinate-lien general airport revenue bond debt in 2022, which we consider
manageable given additional amortization of existing debt. Debt per enplanement totaled $83 in 2018, and we project
it will increase to $92 in fiscal 2019 including the series 2019 bonds based on the forecast, then steadily decline given
limited additional debt needs in the near term.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 16, 2019 7

Minneapolis-St. Paul Metro Airports Commission, Minnesota; Airport

Liquidity and financial flexibility
The liquidity and financial flexibility assessment reflects our expectation that airport management will maintain
unrestricted cash reserves that will exceed at least 350 days' cash on hand, a level we consider strong. MSP's liquidity
declined significantly to $290 million in fiscal 2018 from $411 million in fiscal 2017, as management used a portion of
unrestricted reserves for capital projects to reduce borrowing needs, and also transferred $66 million to reduce its
OPEB liability following the adoption of Governmental Accounting Standards Board No. 75. In fiscal 2018, MSP's $290
million in unrestricted reserves equaled 557 days' cash on hand, and 19% of total debt. However, management
anticipates drawing further upon its available unrestricted reserves to fund its CIP, and forecasts--which we consider
conservative--indicate unrestricted reserve levels will fall to about $190 million in fiscal 2019, or 350 days' cash on
hand, and 11% of total debt outstanding including the series 2019 bonds. We expect days' cash to remain at least
strong given management's informal target to maintain 365 days' cash on hand.
Furthermore, MSP has access to a line of credit totaling $150 million that it uses for interim CIP financing, and
management plans to retire approximately $20.6 million of the drawn balance of $71 million with the series 2019 bond
proceeds. As a result, we expect MSP to have $50.4 million of its line of credit outstanding following the series 2019
bonds, and $99.6 million in undrawn capacity for capital projects.
Ratings Detail (As Of August 16, 2019)
Minneapolis St Paul Metro Arpts Comm subord arpt rev bnds
Long Term Rating

A+/Stable

Affirmed

AA-/Stable

Affirmed

AA-/Stable

Affirmed

Minneapolis St Paul Metro Arpts Comm AIRPORTS
Long Term Rating
Minneapolis St Paul Metro Arpts Comm AIRPORTS
Long Term Rating

Minneapolis-St Paul Metro Arpts Commn sub arpt rev rfdg bnds
Long Term Rating

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

A+/Stable

Affirmed

AUGUST 16, 2019 8

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 16, 2019 9

