Enterprise Development Authority
Primary Credit Analyst:
Brian Chung, New York; brian.chung@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Melissa A Long, New York (1) 212-438-3886; melissa.long@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Subordination Risk Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 9, 2019 1

Enterprise Development Authority
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b-

b-

b-

B-/Positive/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key strengths

Key risks

Construction and development risks are largely mitigated and the project remains on
schedule.

Failure to successfully ramp-up operations could
strain liquidity.

Key partnership and management agreements allow the company to tap into the benefits
of Hard Rock's brand and management team.

Reliance on the performance of a single asset to
service debt obligations.

Very low effective gaming tax.

Reliance on highly cyclical consumer discretionary
spending.

Enterprise Development Authority's (EDA) construction risks are largely mitigated. EDA's construction and
development risks have been largely mitigated by its entry into a guaranteed maximum price contract (GMP) to cover
hard costs to build the casino, healthy construction contingencies representing about 13% of initial hard costs, and its
partnership with Hard Rock International, which has extensive and deep development experience and a history of
opening projects on schedule and on budget. The casino project is on schedule to open in October 2019, and remains
within its original budget. As of June 2019, there is also still a healthy level of contingency relative to remaining hard
costs.
Significant ramp-up risk remains, although the Hard Rock project remains on schedule. EDA will face several risks
common to new gaming projects during its ramp-up period that can lead to significant variability in terms of how
much revenue and EBITDA the project will generate relative to initial forecasts. First, projections of casino patron
behavior must be realized: Hard Rock will need to attract customers away from their current preferred properties by
offering a more convenient location, better experience, or better promotions. If forecasts for consumer visitation and
spending diverge from the project's expectations, revenue and cash flow could be considerably lower than anticipated.
S&P Global Ratings' economists recently raised the risk of a recession occurring over the next 12 months to 30%-35%
from 25%-30% due to weaker growth momentum, worsening trade cross-currents, and heightened geopolitical risk.
The new casino's ramp-up phase could be significantly slower, pressuring cash flow generation and liquidity sources, if
the U.S. economy materially weakens over the next few quarters because gaming relies on discretionary consumer
spending and is highly sensitive to economic conditions.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 9, 2019 2

Enterprise Development Authority

Moreover, EDA will likely face intense competition from existing, well-established casinos that may have sizable
marketing budgets and stronger balance sheets. EDA may face significant defensive spending from competing
properties in its primary market as these competitors seek to retain their customers. This, in turn, would
simultaneously lower EDA's revenue and also force it to boost spending to attract customers, ultimately leading to
lower cash flows. Lastly, the competitive response EDA will face may be irrational, which could further dampen
revenues.
These ramp-up risks are somewhat mitigated by EDA's ability to fund 12 months of post-opening interest through its
three-month funded interest reserve and a nine-month line of credit from Hard Rock, which is good coverage relative
to many other recent gaming projects. Hard Rock's willingness to fund the casino's cage cash through a subordinated
pre-opening loan and to provide EDA with a line of credit to cover nine months of interest shows Hard Rock's level of
support for the project.
EDA's partnership with Hard Rock will support the casino's ramp up in operations.We believe the partnership will help
the casino ramp up operations relatively quickly. Hard Rock's widely recognizable brand, in our view, will support
revenue generation by making the casino seem familiar to guests, thereby encouraging customer visitation from the
first day. In light of Hard Rock's scale and experience efficiently operating tribal casinos, we also expect operating
costs to be lower than otherwise expected.
EDA will benefit from access to Hard Rock's brand and its management team's experience. In our view, EDA will likely
benefit from its management and licensing agreements with Hard Rock and its relatively favorable revenue share
under the management agreement. This partnership allows EDA to use Hard Rock's well-known brand and provides it
with access to Hard Rock's management team, which has had success in both tribal and commercial gaming projects.
There is currently one other tribal casino in northern California operating under a national brand, and one in
development. The Caesars Entertainment Corp.-backed Buena Vista Gaming Authority (approximately 85 miles and a
95-minute drive), which is to Sacramento's southeast, benefits from association with the Harrah's brand and the ability
to cross-market with Caesars' Las Vegas properties. The proposed Wilton-Rancheria development project in Elk
Grove, Calif. (approximately 55 miles and an hour drive), which is unlikely to open before 2021, will likely be a more
significant competitor because it's closer to EDA's primary market. This project's partner is Boyd Gaming Corp. and
although Boyd does not have a quickly recognizable brand like Hard Rock, the Wilton project should benefit from
cross-marketing opportunities with Boyd's Las Vegas assets.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 9, 2019 3

Enterprise Development Authority

Outlook: Positive

The positive outlook reflects our belief that EDA will open on schedule and generate good levels of EBITDA once
open. We believe EDA will generate discretionary cash flow that it can use to pay down modest levels of debt,
leading to stronger credit measures.

Upside scenario
We could raise the rating one notch if the casino opens on time and meets our operating expectations such that
debt to EBITDA will remain less than 5x and EBITDA coverage of total interest more than 2x. Before raising the
rating, we would need to assess the impact that nearby competitors (particularly Elk Grove) would have on EDA's
ability to sustain credit measures in line with our upgrade thresholds.

Downside scenario
While a downgrade is unlikely given EDA's 18-month interest reserve, we could revise the outlook to stable or
lower the rating if unforeseen delays or construction cost overruns strain liquidity. In addition, if the economy
deteriorates and we believe the project will open later than we expect, we could revise the outlook to stable. We
would also consider revising the outlook if, upon opening, the casino's operating results are weaker than we expect
and leverage appears unlikely to improve to less than 5x or coverage to more than 2x in a relatively short time. If
liquidity becomes impaired after opening as a result of weak operating performance, we could lower the rating.
Weaker-than-expected operating results could be caused by fewer visitors than expected, a weak economy, or
unexpectedly aggressive competitive responses from nearby casinos.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 9, 2019 4

Enterprise Development Authority

Assumptions

Key Metrics

• EDA opens in the second half of 2019, following a
15-month construction period.

Year 1E
FFO to debt (%)

• The facility opens with 1,500 slot machines, 55 table
games, and its full complement of amenities,
including its planned 170-room hotel, event space,
and food and dining venues.
• Our forecast is pro forma for the impact of new
competition--particularly at Wilton-Rancheria--as if
that project is open in EDA's first year of operations.

Debt to EBITDA (x)
EBITDA coverage of interest (x)

Year 2E

5-7

7-10

5.3-5.5

4.7-4.9

Mid-1

High-1

Note: All figures are S&P Global Ratings-adjusted.
E--Estimate. FFO--Funds from operations (reflects first
and second full years of operations).

• Net revenues in the $180 million-$190 million range
in the first year, growing 5%-10% in the second year
as consumers learn of the property.
• EBITDA margins--after paying out priority tribal
distributions and the Hard Rock management
fee--will be in the 45%-50% range. (We subtract
priority distributions from EBITDA because we
believe these are largely tribal operating expenses,
would not be available for debt service, and would
continue to be paid even in an event of a default.)
• Under these revenue and margin assumptions, we
forecast EBITDA of about $90 million in the first
year of operations, growing to about $100 million in
the second year.

Company Description
EDA is a wholly owned unincorporated governmental instrumentality of the Estom Yumeka Maidu Tribe of the
Enterprise Rancheria (the Tribe). EDA plans to open the Hard Rock Hotel & Casinos – Sacramento at Fire Mountain
on a 40-acre property located in Yuba County, Calif., about 35 miles north of Sacramento. EDA has entered into
development, management, and licensing agreements with Hard Rock Sacramento FM LLC, a subsidiary of Seminole
Hard Rock Entertainment Inc., to build and manage the property.

Business Risk: Weak
As a single casino operator, EDA lacks geographic diversity. Reliance on a single property to generate cash flow and
service debt heightens vulnerability to adverse competitive changes, event risks, and regional economic weakness. We
consider the Sacramento gaming market to be competitive, with seven primary competitors (six existing, one planned)
within 70 miles of Sacramento, its target market, as well as another five secondary competitors (four existing, one

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 9, 2019 5

Enterprise Development Authority

planned) within 50-90 miles of Sacramento. Somewhat mitigating the high number of competitors is EDA's favorable
geographic location, at the junction of two major freeways, CA-65 and CA-70, which by drive time should make EDA
the third-closest casino to downtown Sacramento of these 12 competitors. Although the project will open with a hotel,
an event center, and offer food and beverages, we expect gaming to contribute the vast majority of revenues.
Relative to both its national and California gaming peers (both commercial and tribal), EDA will benefit from a very
low effective gaming tax rate, estimated at about $1 million per year for the first seven years, providing flexibility to
offer deeper promotions and a competitive advantage over its peers. Because EDA will offer gaming under Secretarial
Procedures granted by the U.S. Department of the Interior--as opposed to a Compact with the State of California--it
will not make payments into California's Indian Gaming Revenue Sharing Trust Fund for the first seven years of
operations.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
In its first full year of operations, we expect EDA's leverage will be in the mid-5x area and funds from operations (FFO)
to debt in the mid-single-digit percent area.

Liquidity: Adequate
We assess EDA's liquidity profile as adequate. We believe EDA will have sufficient sources of liquidity to cover uses
during the 15-month construction period, and we view the funded three-month post-opening interest reserve and a line
of credit from Hard Rock that can be used to pay interest for an additional nine months after opening as favorable
compared to other recent gaming projects. Our assessment includes the following expectations:
• We expect liquidity sources to exceed uses by at least 1.2x over the next 12 months.
• We believe EDA's entry into a GMP to cover hard costs to build the casino, coupled with a contingency
representing about 13% of hard costs, largely mitigates the risk of construction delays and cost overruns.
• We also believe EDA's and Hard Rock's funding of cage cash and the provision of liquidity sources to cover interest
for 12 months after opening, as well as its GMP, indicates generally prudent risk management.
• We believe EDA's ability to secure debt financing for its construction project indicates a sound relationship with its
bank. Furthermore, while EDA is a new issuer with a limited track record in the capital markets, Hard Rock has an
established record of access to capital markets, which we expect EDA to benefit from.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 9, 2019 6

Enterprise Development Authority

Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• During the construction period, funds from last
year's $450 million secured notes offering.

• Construction costs.

• Once the property begins operations, modest FFO
(supported by remaining interest reserves).

• Interest expenses (supported by a funded interest
reserve that will cover interest expenses during the
15-month construction phase and for about three
months after opening).
• Pre-opening costs and expenses.
• Transaction fees and expenses.
• After the casino opens, modest maintenance capital
expenditures of $4 million-$5 million.

Covenant Analysis
The revolver is subject to a minimum EBITDAM covenant of $75 million. The covenant will not be tested until one full
quarter after the property opens. We do not expect the covenant will be tested before 2020, and EBITDAM will be
annualized for the first three quarters in calculating the covenant. We expect EDA will have adequate cushion.

Issue Ratings - Subordination Risk Analysis
We do not assign recovery ratings to Native American debt issues because there are significant uncertainties
surrounding the exercise of creditor rights against a sovereign nation, including whether the U.S. Bankruptcy Code
would apply, whether a U.S. court would ultimately be the appropriate venue to settle such a matter, and to what
extent a creditor would be able to enforce a judgment against a sovereign nation.

Capital structure
EDA's capital structure consists of $450 million of senior secured notes and about $64 million of unrated subordinated
debt. EDA also has access to a currently undrawn $10 million revolving credit facility that ranks pari passu with the
senior secured notes.

Analytical conclusions
EDA's revolver and notes are rated 'B-', the same as the issuer credit rating, because they are secured and no
significant elements of subordination risk are present in the capital structure.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B-/Positive/--

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 9, 2019 7

Enterprise Development Authority

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: bModifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: Neutral (no impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)

Related Criteria
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Reflecting Subordination Risk In Corporate Issue Ratings, March 28, 2018
• General Criteria: Methodology For Linking Long-Term And Short-Term Ratings, April 7, 2017
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Leisure And Sports Industry, March 5, 2014
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 9, 2019 8

Enterprise Development Authority

Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Business Risk Profile
Excellent
Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

Ratings Detail (As Of September 9, 2019)*
Enterprise Development Authority
Issuer Credit Rating

B-/Positive/--

Senior Secured

B-

Issuer Credit Ratings History
19-Jun-2018

B-/Positive/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 9, 2019 9

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 9, 2019 10

