Recovery Report:

Petco Holdings Inc.'s Recovery Rating Profile
September 17, 2019

Recovery Rating Rationale

PRIMARY CREDIT ANALYST

- S&P Global Ratings is providing our recovery analysis on Petco Holdings Inc.’s $2.5 billion senior
secured term loan facility due 2023, which has a '3' recovery rating and 'CCC+' issue rating.

Cameron Bybee
New York

- Our simulated default analysis contemplates a deep economic downturn and steep competition
that results in a significant drop in sales revenue.

+ 1 (212) 438 8298

- We estimate a gross recovery value of $1.68 billion assuming an emergence EBITDA of $336
million and a 5.0x multiple.

RECOVERY ANALYST

cameron.bybee
@spglobal.com

Kenny K Tang
New York
(1) 212-438-3338

Petco Holdings Inc.--Credit Profile
Corporate credit rating

kenny.tang
@spglobal.com

CCC+/Negative/--

Estimated gross enterprise $1.68 bil.
value at emergence
Year of default

2021

Facility/Issue

Principal & Interest
Outstanding at default (1)

Recovery
rating

Issue
rating

Expected recovery
(%)

Maturity

$500 million ABL revolving
credit facility

$241 mil

NR

NR

N/A

2022

$2.525 billion senior
secured term loan

$ 2.47 bil

3

CCC+

(50%-70%,
rounded est. 50%)

2023

$789 million

NR

NR

N/A

2024

Secured debt

Unseurd debt
Libor + 8% unsecured
senior PIK-toggle notes

(1) Includes an assumed six months of accrued and unpaid interest. NR--Not rated. N/A--Not applicable.

For the complete issuer credit rating rationale, see the research update on Petco Holdings Inc.,
published on Aug. 16, 2019, on RatingsDirect.

www.spglobal.com/ratingsdirect

September 17, 2019

1

Recovery Report: Petco Holdings Inc.'s Recovery Rating Profile

Issue Ratings--Recovery Analysis
Simulated default scenario
Our simulated default scenario contemplates a significant sales decline due to a deep economic
slowdown that affects pet-owners' willingness to purchase higher-priced, premium or specialty
pet food and supplies. The company would also face steep online competition that places
significant pricing pressure. We anticipate a payment default when cash flows and liquidity fall
below sufficient levels to cover the company's fixed charge obligations, including debt service
requirements, minimum capital expenditures, and lease obligations. Our simulated default
scenario assumes a default in the first half of 2021.
For our recovery analysis, we assume:
- Asset-backed lending (ABL) revolver commitment is 60% drawn as limited by a borrowing base,
minus outstanding letters of credit of roughly $65 million;
- Mandatory principal amortization is made up to default year; and
- Six months of accrued and unpaid interest on funded debt.

Valuation
We believe the company would likely close unprofitable stores, which means revenue would be
lower but the implementation of cost cutting measures would improve its EBITDA margins in the
course of a bankruptcy reorganization scenario. As such, we estimate EBITDA of about $336
million by the time of emergence, to which we apply a 5.0x multiple to reflect the going-concern
prospects of the emerged company offset by potential ongoing tailwinds in the retail sector.
- Emergence EBITDA: $336 million
- EBITDA multiple: 5x
- Emergence enterprise value: $1.68 billion
- Total debt outstanding at default: $3.56 billion
- Assumed ABL claim: $300 million

Outcome
After a 5% charge for restructuring administrative expenses and $300 million in estimated ABL
claims, we estimate a meaningful (50%-70%; rounded estimate: 50%) prospect for recovery for
the $2.47 billion in secured term loan debt outstanding in the event of a payment default.

Legal And Structural Considerations
Capital structure
The existing debt structure consists of:

www.spglobal.com/ratingsdirect

September 17, 2019

2

Recovery Report: Petco Holdings Inc.'s Recovery Rating Profile

- $500 million ABL revolver facility;
- $2.5 billion senior secured term loan facility (principal outstanding of approximately $2.45
billion); and
- $750 million senior unsecured notes

Security and guarantee package
The ABL and first-lien term loan are guaranteed by each of the borrower's existing and future
domestic subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions. The ABL is secured by a first-priority lien on
all current assets of the borrower and guarantors, and a second lien on tangible and intangible
assets and capital stock of the borrower and guarantors. The first-lien secured term loan facility is
secured by a first-priority lien on substantially all tangible and intangible assets, capital stock of
the borrowers and guarantors, and a second lien on the ABL priority collateral. The collateral
package to both the ABL and the term loan is subject to certain exceptions.

Documentation/covenants
The ABL revolving credit facility includes a springing financial maintenance covenant that requires
the company to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of not less than 1.0 to 1.0 when and as long
as excess availability (as defined in the credit agreement) is less than the greater of 1) 10% of the
line cap, and 2) $30 million. Funds availability under the ABL revolver is governed by a
borrowing-base formula.
The term loan does not require the company to comply with financial maintenance covenants.
However, both credit facility agreements contain negative covenants related to indebtedness,
liens, fundamental changes in the business, investments, and restricted payments. Within those
negative covenants are incurrence-style tests that restrict Petco's ability to engage in additional
borrowing and certain transactions unless it complies with ratio tests such as total net leverage
and interest coverage.

Insolvency regimes
Petco has a brand joint venture in Mexico. This venture currently accounts for less than 10% of
revenues. In the event of a bankruptcy proceeding, the company would likely file for bankruptcy
protection under the auspices of the U.S. bankruptcy court system and would likely not involve
foreign jurisdictions.

www.spglobal.com/ratingsdirect

September 17, 2019

3

Recovery Report: Petco Holdings Inc.'s Recovery Rating Profile

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any
part thereof (Content) may be modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or
retrieval system, without the prior written permission of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The
Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party providers, as well as their directors, officers,
shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or availability of the
Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results
obtained from the use of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is”
basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT
THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE
CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and
opportunity costs or losses caused by negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such
damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are
expressed and not statements of fact. S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not
recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any
security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The Content should not be relied on
and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While
S&P has obtained information from sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due
diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Rating-related publications may be published for a variety of reasons
that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication of a periodic update on a
credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for
certain regulatory purposes, S&P reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole
discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as
well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their
respective activities. As a result, certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P
has established policies and procedures to maintain the confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each
analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors.
S&P reserves the right to disseminate its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites,
www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com (subscription), and may be distributed through other means,
including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is available at
www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

www.spglobal.com/ratingsdirect

September 17, 2019

4

