Texas Water Development Board;
State Revolving Funds/Pools
Primary Credit Analyst:
James M Breeding, Farmers Branch (1) 214-871-1407; james.breeding@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Scott D Garrigan, New York (1) 312-233-7014; scott.garrigan@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Rationale
Outlook
Enterprise Risk Profile
Financial Risk Profile

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 21, 2019 1

Texas Water Development Board; State Revolving
Funds/Pools
Credit Profile
US$836.77 mil st wtr implementation rev fd for Texas rev bnds ser 2019A dtd 10/10/2019 due 10/15/2054
Long Term Rating

AAA/Stable

New

US$23.02 mil st wtr implementation rev fd for Texas rev bnds ser 2019B dtd 10/10/2019 due 10/15/2049
Long Term Rating

AAA/Stable

New

Rationale
S&P Global Ratings assigned its 'AAA' rating to the Texas Water Development Board's (TWDB) series 2019A and
2019B State Water Implementation Revenue Fund for Texas (SWIRFT) revenue bonds. At the same time, S&P Global
Ratings affirmed its 'AAA' rating on the TWDB's series 2015, 2016A, 2016B, 2017A, 2017B, 2018A, 2018B, and 2018C
bonds outstanding. The outlook is stable.
The ratings reflect the combination of a very strong enterprise risk profile and an extremely strong financial risk
profile. Certain overriding factors have also been applied, including the extremely strong repayment history regarding
payments to the TWDB through other financial-assistance programs, and the ability for the sizable
overcollateralization to address extraordinarily high default or delinquency rates.
The very strong enterprise risk profile reflects the combination of a low industry risk assessment, coupled with a very
strong market position score and the geographic diversity of the program participants.
The extremely strong financial risk profile reflects the extremely strong loss coverage score, further supported by the
issuer's strong policies and procedures.
Proceeds of the series 2019A and 2019B bonds will be used to purchase 17 political subdivision obligations (PSOs)
from 10 different entities. The bonds are secured by the repayment of those PSOs, coupled with funds transferred from
the State Water Implementation Fund for Texas (SWIFT) to the SWIRFT. In November 2013, state voters approved an
amendment to the state constitution, which created the SWIFT and the SWIRFT. To initially capitalize the SWIFT,
$2.0 billion was transferred from the state's economic-stabilization fund and placed in the SWIFT. Funds held in the
SWIFT are managed by the Texas Treasury Safekeeping Trust Company. The SWIFT was established to provide
financial assistance for state water plan projects.
While the balance in the SWIFT is not pledged to the bonds, the use of the funds in the SWIFT is highly restricted and
can be used only for state water plan projects. Although these projects could include other TWDB programs, it
remains the board's intent that the corpus of the SWIFT be available to make annual transfers to the SWIRFT to fund
local water projects. The availability of the SWIFT balance and the board's willingness to approve additional transfers
to cover any shortfalls in the SWIRFT accounts remain, collectively, the critical factor in our assignment and
maintenance of the 'AAA' rating. This will be the first transfer from the SWIFT to the SWIRFT for fiscal 2020.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 21, 2019 2

Texas Water Development Board; State Revolving Funds/Pools

With each issuance of bonds, a bond-enhancement agreement is executed and a transfer of funds from the SWIFT to
the SWIRFT occurs. This transfer is sized to provide for the targeted subsidy amount determined by the TWDB. The
corpus of the transfer, coupled with projected interest earnings and the scheduled repayments of the PSOs, is designed
to provide 1.0x annual debt service coverage for each series of bonds. The transfer amount is determined in
connection with each bond issue. Bonds projected to be issued in subsequent years will not be on parity with these, or
with any previously issued, bonds. Each bond series is supported by a specific revenue stream, although that stream
will always include certain PSO repayments and the related transfer from the SWIFT to the respective SWIRFT
assistance account under that specific bond-enhancement agreement. The TWDB is authorized to execute no more
than two bond-enhancement agreements each fiscal year.
Because we view securitizations backed by pools of public-sector assets as highly sensitive to country risk, the rating
on the securitization is capped at two notches above the sovereign. However, no specific sovereign default stress is
applied, given the U.S. sovereign rating is 'AA+'.

Outlook
The stable outlook reflects our expectations that:
• Embedded policies and procedures will remain in place and will continue to ensure a high level of borrower
repayments;
• Proactive financial management will ensure stable cash flows that meet program goals and objectives, while
providing for adequate coverage of annual debt service;
• Investment strategies related to management of the SWIFT funds, while established to provide for growth in the
fund, will also provide for a high level of potentially available funds for SWIRFT programs; and
• Board management will maintain the ability and willingness to address any SWIRFT account shortfalls through
additional bond-enhancement agreements.

Downside scenario
We could lower the rating should there be:
• A leveraging of the SWIFT that creates a level of stress that the fund is unable to compensate for;
• A change in the policies, procedures, or governing legislation that allows for, or creates, dilution of the available
SWIFT balances below a level that we believe is commensurate with the rating; or
• Unwillingness by management to take appropriate steps to cure any revenue shortfalls in the respective SWIRFT
accounts.

Enterprise Risk Profile
The very strong market position score reflects the fact that the program was established through the passage of a
constitutional amendment, was capitalized via a direct equity contribution, and is managed by a governmental agency.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 21, 2019 3

Texas Water Development Board; State Revolving Funds/Pools

However, additional governmental support or contributions are not anticipated. The TWDB was created in 1957, with
a mission of providing leadership, information, education, and support for planning, financial assistance, and outreach
for the conservation and responsible development of water. It is responsible for long-term water planning and is
primarily responsible for the state's financial programs associated with the water industry, including the establishment
of policy for the financial programs.
There is no geographical concentration within the initial rounds of SWIRFT funding, although densely populated areas
of the state will likely require more funding.

Financial Risk Profile
Loss coverage
The loss coverage score reflects the degree to which program cash flows can withstand repayment defaults or
delinquencies. This is determined by an evaluation of the credit quality of the borrowers within the program, coupled
with the degree of overcollateralization available to program management.
Revenues from the PSOs do not initially provide 1.0x coverage of the annual bond principal and interest payments.
The initial transfer of funds from the SWIFT is designed to cover that shortfall, which in effect creates the subsidy to
the program participants. As the cash flows are currently structured, and assuming less than 100% recovery of any
defaults within the program, only a minimal level of defaults can be absorbed unless projected interest earnings on any
of the indenture accounts are significantly higher than projected, or funds are accumulated in surplus accounts.
Therefore, collateralization is generally provided through the mechanism that allows, but does not require, TWDB
management to execute additional bond-enhancement agreements to address any SWIRFT shortfalls. TWDB
management's ability and willingness to act under this potential circumstance are absolutely the key credit
consideration for determining the loss coverage score and, ultimately, the assigned rating.
Other factors that support the extremely strong loss coverage score are the generally high credit ratings on the initial
participants. Following this round of funding, there will be more than 100 PSOs purchased from 38 separate and
distinct entities within the state. While not all borrowers are rated, several are highly rated, including Tarrant Regional
Water District ('AAA'), North Texas Municipal Water District (NTMWD; 'AAA'), El Paso Water Utilities ('AA+'), and the
City of Houston ('AA'). With the purchase of these PSOs, concentration in the overall program is beginning to
decrease, with NTMWD now accounting for about 23%of the PSO balance outstanding. However, about one-third of
the financial assistance is provided to entities rated 'AAA' by S&P Global Ratings, while another 50% of the assistance
is provided to entities rated 'AA'.
Over time, however, this percentage could change as the program issues additional debt and provides assistance to
more entities not highly rated. The effect on the loss coverage score, though, should be minimal given the availability
of the balance within the SWIFT. Management's intent is to eventually provide financial assistance of more than $27.0
billion, which would be supported by PSO repayments, and future bond-enhancement agreements. Therefore, the
investment strategy related to the SWIFT will become more critical as additional leveraging takes place. The SWIFT is
actively managed by the Texas Treasury Safekeeping Trust Company, with many investment options available to
maximize returns through a dynamic financial analysis model. In our view, a sufficient portion of the SWIFT is liquid,

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 21, 2019 4

Texas Water Development Board; State Revolving Funds/Pools

with a target allocation of at least 10% to be held in cash. This is in addition to the amount annually transferred to the
SWIRFT program. Other investments include global equities, hedged equities, and global fixed income. The SWIRFT
accounts are held at the trustee levels with much stricter eligible investments typically associated with a public finance
bond offering.

Management policies and practices
Other factors supporting the extremely strong financial risk profile are the strong policies and procedures in place for
administration of the SWIFT and SWIRFT. Management has an established application process for all of the board's
financial-assistance programs. Also, each year, TWDB staff review every program participant's financial status. In
addition, to guard against effects on future debt service payments, sufficiency of PSO revenue is required to be
calculated at least 40 days in advance of the upcoming principal or interest payment date. Management also has
well-established investment policies and guidelines.
Ratings Detail (As Of August 21, 2019)
Texas Wtr Dev Brd SFRP
Long Term Rating

AAA/Stable

Affirmed

AAA/Stable

Affirmed

AAA/Stable

Affirmed

AAA/Stable

Affirmed

AAA/Stable

Affirmed

Texas Wtr Dev Brd SFRP
Long Term Rating
Texas Wtr Dev Brd SRFP
Long Term Rating
Texas Wtr Dev Brd SRFP
Long Term Rating
Texas Wtr Dev Brd SRFP
Long Term Rating

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 21, 2019 5

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 21, 2019 6

