CB Poly Investments LLC
Primary Credit Analyst:
Pranav Khattar, CFA, Toronto + 1 (416) 507 2549; Pranav.Khattar@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Minesh Patel, CFA, New York (1) 212-438-6410; minesh.patel@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 1

CB Poly Investments LLC
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b

b

b

B/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key Strengths

Key Risks

Good market position within the niche segment of promotional products.

Highly competitive and fragmented industry dynamics.

Proprietary capabilities in design, decoration, and customization services,
which include the ability to handle small-batch orders.

Highly leveraged debt capitalization, which makes the company
vulnerable to changes in the economic cycle.

Diversified promotional products.

Financial sponsorship increases risk of prioritizing
shareholder-friendly actions.

Despite the global trade uncertainty and related tariffs, we expect minimal impact to subsidiary Polyconcept North
America Holdings Inc.'s operating margins. Polyconcept North America Holdings Inc. continues to implement price
increases, albeit on a lag, to offset the impact of tariffs on goods imported from China. These initiatives, coupled with
operational improvements at various warehouse facilities based in the U.S., should further alleviate margin pressure
over the next 12 months.
The discretionary nature of Polyconcept's products could result in revenue and earnings volatility during economic
downturns. Despite products that include an offering that caters to the value segment, we believe revenues are highly
correlated to macroeconomic growth and advertising spending. Polyconcept's clients have reduced spending during
downturns, however we expect ongoing promotional product spending given the medium's relative cost effectiveness.
The company undertook several initiatives to improve flexibility during a downturn, which would likely result in some
margin stability, although overall revenue and cash flow would suffer.
Relatively low barriers to entry create a highly competitive and fragmented marketplace.The market is saturated, with
the top five promotional products companies accounting for only about 15% of market share. These factors, coupled
with a non-contractual order-based revenue model, result in low revenue visibility and the potential for price-based
competition.
However, Polyconcept's long-term distributor relationships and proprietary capabilities in design, decoration, and
customization services--which remains an expanding segment of the overall promotional products industry--provides
for competitive differentiation.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 2

CB Poly Investments LLC

The company's leverage is high (mid-5x area by year-end 2019), and its financial sponsor could prioritize
shareholder-friendly actions to reduce financial flexibility. Charlesbank Capital Partners made its initial investment in
July 2016. We believe Charlesbank has the typical four- to seven-year holding period and could seek to monetize its
investment over the next three to four years. It may use debt or debt-like instruments to maximize shareholder returns,
but we have not incorporated them into our base-case scenario given the uncertainty of size and timing.

Outlook: Stable

The stable rating outlook reflects our expectation that over the next 12 months Polyconcept will continue to
increase revenues in the mid-single-digit percentage area, generate modest cash flow with free operating cash flow
(FOCF) to debt in the low-to-mid-single digit percentage area, and maintain adjusted leverage in the mid-5x area.

Downside scenario
We could lower the ratings if operating difficulties largely due to poor sell-through of inventory deteriorate credit
measures and constrain liquidity. In this scenario, the macroeconomic environment worsens significantly, resulting
in weakened cash flow or cash flow deficits, or the company exhibits a more aggressive financial policy with
debt-financed acquisitions or dividends increasing leverage over 7x.

Upside scenario
While unlikely given the company's financial sponsor ownership, we could consider an upgrade if it demonstrates
its commitment to maintaining leverage comfortably below 5x or demonstrates strong operating performance
while expanding its business scale and diversifying its product mix, resulting in less expected revenue cyclicality.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 3

CB Poly Investments LLC

Assumptions

Key Metrics

• U.S. GDP growth rate of 2.5% for 2019 and 1.8% for
2020. Eurozone GDP growth rate of 1.1% for 2019
and 1.3% for 2020.

• S&P Global Ratings-adjusted debt to EBITDA in the
mid-5x area by year-end 2019 and 2020.

• Overall revenue growth of a low- to mid-single-digit
percentage rate in 2019 and 2020, higher than the
GDP growth rate and industry growth rate mainly
due to higher demand for drinkware, stationary,
bags, and technology products, price increases, and
increased penetration of decoration products in
Europe.

• S&P Global Ratings-adjusted FOCF to debt in the
low- to mid-single-digit percentage range by
year-end 2019 and 2020.

• Adjusted EBITDA margin remaining in the low- to
mid–teens percentage range as price increases
applied in 2019 will offset increased input costs.
• Adjusted debt of about $707 million, which includes
about $70 million in operating leases and other
adjustments.
• No assumptions about acquisitions or shareholder
returns because we expect the company to reinvest
in organic growth.

Company Description
Polyconcept is one of the world's largest promotional products companies, with revenues of over $800 million in 2018,
serving more than 100 countries and nearly 30% of its sales stemming from outside North America. It participates in a
highly competitive and fragmented industry with the top five industry players holding less than 15% market share.
It supplies a wide variety of promotional, lifestyle, and gift products at various price ranges across value and premium
hard goods and apparel, to a variety of companies and organizations through a network of distributors. Polyconcept
differentiates itself by offering product design, sourcing, decoration, and in-house customization services, unlike other
rated peers that operate as distributors and manage the end-customer relationship.

Liquidity: Adequate
We expect Polyconcept to maintain adequate liquidity over the next 12 months, and that the sources will likely exceed
uses by 5x over the next 12 months. We expect net sources would be positive even with a 15% drop in EBITDA. We
do not believe that the company could absorb high-impact, lower-probability events without refinancing. The company
has good banking relationships, and a more aggressive financial risk management given its financial sponsor
ownership and higher leverage.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 4

CB Poly Investments LLC

Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• $41 million cash balance as of June 30, 2019;

• Annual capital expenditures (capex) of about $30
million, but during stress maintenance capex of
around $10 million;

• Cash funds from operations around $55 million-$65
million in 2019; and
• $80 million available under the $88 million
asset-based lending (ABL) facility due in 2021.

• $12 million working capex in 2019; and
• Annual first-lien term loan amortization of $4.8
million.

Covenant Analysis
• There are no financial maintenance covenants under the term loans. However, the ABL has a springing fixed-charge
coverage ratio of 1x when the available limit is less than the greater of the 10% of the line cap ($8.8 million) and $6.5
million. Also, the ABL will have springing cash dominion if excess availability is less than the greater of $8 million
and 10% of the lesser of the borrowing base and commitments of the ABL facility.
• We do not anticipate that the company would trigger either covenant.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 5

CB Poly Investments LLC

Key analytical factors

• Polyconcept's capital structure consists of an $88 million ABL maturing in 2021, a $485 million first-lien term
loan maturing in 2023, and a $175 million senior secured second-lien term loan maturing in 2024. The ABL
revolver has a perfected first-priority lien on all accounts receivable, inventory, and cash of the borrower and its
material domestic subsidiaries, and a third-priority lien on all non-ABL priority collateral. The first lien term loan
has a second-priority lien on the ABL collateral and a first-lien on non-ABL collateral. The second lien has
third-priority security interests.
• The collateral for the first- and second-lien facilities includes tangible and intangible assets of the borrower and
guarantors, including 100% of the capital stock of the borrower and any subsidiary of the borrower or
guarantors, subject to customary exceptions (but limited to 65% of the voting equity interests of any such
subsidiary that is tax-excluded or foreign).
• The borrowers of the debt are Polyconcept North America Holdings Inc., a Delaware corporation; Leedsworld
Inc.; Bullet Line LLC; and Trimark Sportswear Canada Inc., a Canadian corporation. Under the ABL, they can
borrow up to $10 million in euros and up to $30 million in Canadian ABL borrowings. Guarantors under the ABL
and the first- and second-lien term loans are each material wholly owned restricted subsidiaries of the issuer. We
assume 25% of our emergence enterprise value is attributed to non-guarantor entities.
• Our emergence enterprise value assumes a going-concern using a 5x multiple of our projected emergence
EBITDA, consistent with the multiple used for similar companies.
• Our simulated default scenario assumes a payment default in 2022 as a result of a major economic downturn in
the U.S. and Europe, resulting in a substantial pullback in promotion product spending. In addition, product
costs could sharply increase.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 6

CB Poly Investments LLC

Simulated default and valuation assumptions

Simplified waterfall

• Year of default: 2022

• Net enterprise value (after 5% administrative costs):
$364 million

• EBITDA at emergence: About $77 million
• Implied enterprise value multiple: 5x
• Revolving credit facility: 85% drawn at default

• Obligor/nonobligor valuation split: 75%/25%
• Collateral value available for secured debt: $332
million
• Estimated priority ABL claims: $54 million
• --Recovery expectations: 90%-100% (rounded
estimate: 95%)
• Remaining value to secured claims: $278 million
• First-lien claims: $470 million
• --Recovery expectations: 50%-70% (rounded
estimate: 60%)
• Second-lien claims: $378 million
• --Recovery expectations: 0%-10% (rounded
estimate: 5%)
All debt amounts include six months of prepetition
interest.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B/Stable/--

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: b
Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 7

CB Poly Investments LLC

• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: FS-6 (no additional impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, July 1, 2019
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, April 1, 2019
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate
Issuers, Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria | Corporates | Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Consumer Durables Industry, Dec. 12, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities, Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Business Risk Profile
Excellent
Strong
Satisfactory

Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Fair

Ratings Detail (As Of September 13, 2019)*
CB Poly Investments, LLC
Issuer Credit Rating

B/Stable/--

Issuer Credit Ratings History
27-Jul-2016

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

B/Stable/--

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 8

CB Poly Investments LLC

Ratings Detail (As Of September 13, 2019)*(cont.)
Related Entities
Bullet Line LLC
Senior Secured

BB-

Ignite Merger Sub Inc.
Senior Secured

B

Senior Secured

BB-

Senior Secured

CCC+

Leedsworld Inc.
Senior Secured

BB-

Polyconcept North America Holdings, Inc.
Senior Secured

B

Senior Secured

BB-

Senior Secured

CCC+

Timeplanner Calendars Inc.
Senior Secured

BB-

Trimark Holdings Inc.
Senior Secured

BB-

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 9

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 10

