Alpha BidCo SAS
Primary Credit Analyst:
Solene Letullier, Paris +33 (0)1 40 75 25 54; solene.letullier@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Nicolas Baudouin, Paris (33) 1-4420-6672; nicolas.baudouin@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 1

Alpha BidCo SAS
Business Risk: FAIR

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b

b

b

B/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key Strengths

Key Risks

Niche product leadership positions in most of Alpha's top-selling
brands thanks to strong and resilient brand reputations.

Small scale of operations compared with other larger generic and
specialty pharmaceutical companies.

Well-diversified product portfolio with no product concentration (no. 1
product accounted for 7% of 2018 revenues).

Limited, although improving, geographic diversity, with 60% of sales
generated from France and 16% from Netherlands.

High entry barriers due to restrictions on sale of over-the-counter
(OTC) medication through general retail channels.

Exposure to selected niche OTC categories, which face intense
competition.

Ability to generate substantial positive free operating cash flow
sustainably above €40 million thanks to strong profitability and low
capital intensity of the business.

Highly leveraged capital structure, with S&P Global Ratings adjusted
debt to EBITDA to remain above 8x over the forecast horizon, including
preferred shares at Alpha Topco.

Solid interest coverage with funds from operations (FFO) cash interest
coverage ratios to remain above 3x over the next two years.

Alpha BidCo SAS is experiencing a sustainable growth period supported by a robust portfolio of brands, a tailored
distribution strategy, and a clear policy of bolt-on acquisitions. Alpha posted resilient organic growth of 2.5% in 2018,
despite a relatively competitive environment in the generics industry in Europe. These favorable trends are driven by a
bunch of very successful brands including Oenobiol (health and beauty), Alpha's largest product, with solid margins;
Mag 2 (dietary supplements); Excilor (medical foot care); Etiaxil (anti-perspirant); and Pouxit and Insectecran
(anti-parasites) delivering solid organic growth. Alpha also enjoys cross-selling opportunities with Vemedia's brands
being pushed by Cooper's sales force. For instance, Belgium and France benefitted recently from the successful
take-off of Oenobiol. On top of that, the recently acquired portfolio of 12 OTC brands from Sanofi saw double-digit
growth in first quarter (Q1) 2019. However, we expect the revenues generated by the group's largest brand,
Hexomedine (no. 3 brand in France in dermatology) to now plateau following its de-reimbursement and OTC switch
effective February 2019.
We forecast Alpha will be able to generate top-line revenue growth of 2%-3% over the forecast horizon, slightly
outpacing the European OTC market. This is driven by Alpha's product line extensions, the set-up of a new pricing
approach on selected products, and reinforcement of commercial teams (especially in Italy, where the group just hired
a team of sales representatives).

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 2

Alpha BidCo SAS

Vemedia integration has faced few hurdles but synergies are still to be reaped. Both Cooper and Vemedia have retained
country-based sales and a tailored marketing focus. In fact, Cooper's push model is driven by direct sales including
pharmacists visits (22,000 pharma in France) while Vemedia's pull model is supported by strong advertising and
promotional spending to gain market share. In our view, distribution strategy tailored to local market characteristics
enhance growth potential. Further synergies are still to be reaped from cross selling (leveraging Vemedia's salesforce
to market Cooper's leading brands) and cross-manufacturing opportunities (subcontracting at Vemedia rather than at
third-parties).
Profitability expansion expected in the coming 18 months. We forecast margins will improve to around 29%-30% in
2019 from around 24.9% in 2018. This is due to an accretive impact from recently acquired portfolios, lower merger
and acquisition (M&A)–related costs (in 2018 the group recorded €12 million of outflows related to the deal with
Sanofi, including drug registration costs), and focus on efficiency gains.

Outlook: Stable

The stable outlook on Alpha reflects our view that its efficient operating model, successful pursuit of Vemedia's
integration, and the acquisition of OTC brands in France and Italy should enable it to sustain its financial
performance and solid cash flow generation. We think Alpha will likely deliver low-single-digit organic revenue
growth while improving its adjusted EBITDA margin to 29%-30% in the next 12-18 months. This assumes Vemedia
improves its product mix by lowering the contribution of distribution brands and monitors its marketing spending,
while benefiting from critical mass in Italy thanks to the recently acquired brands. In the meantime, we expect
Cooper will maintain its strong relationships with pharmacies in France and deliver successful product launches.
Finally, we assume the combined group will realize significant distribution cost savings and business synergies.
Moreover, we anticipate Alpha will uphold FFO cash interest coverage at above 3.0x and a comfortable level of
positive operating free cash flow, enabling it to maintain a 'B' rating. This would allow the company to service with
ample headroom its cash interest and start deleveraging over the next 12-18 months.

Downside scenario
We could lower the rating if we observed a deterioration of profitability, reflected in the adjusted EBITDA margin
contracting sustainably below the 25% threshold and FFO cash interest coverage decreasing to less than 2x. This
could result from failure to achieve costs efficiencies from the Vemedia acquisition, or a change in the regulatory
framework for OTC drugs that led to pharmacies in France losing their competitiveness as a distribution channel
for OTC drugs, and ensuing price competition. We would also consider a downgrade if the company makes a large
debt-funded acquisition, combined with lower free operating cash flow generation.

Upside scenario
The potential for an upgrade is constrained by Alpha's currently high leverage and financial policy. Also, the
company is operating in a consolidating industry and will most likely participate in this trend to increase its scale
and enhance its operating leverage. Still, we could consider a positive rating action if the company established
maintained stable EBITDA margins and generated a comfortable level of positive free cash flow while integrating
new businesses. An upgrade would also be conditional on the company committing to progressive deleveraging.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 3

Alpha BidCo SAS

Our Base-Case Scenario
Assumptions

• Revenue will increase by 10.5%-11.5% in 2019,
reflecting the Sanofi portfolio's full consolidation and
resilient performance of the existing Cooper and
Vemedia brands. On an organic basis, we assume
Alpha's revenue will grow by 2%-3%, reflecting
constant product line extensions, implementation of
its pricing strategy, progressive turnaround of
Oenobiol, and Vemedia's commercial adjustments in
Italy and Spain.
• Adjusted EBITDA margins to rebound to 29%-30%
thanks to the full integration of recently acquired
businesses and gains in sales providing better
absorption of distribution costs, higher prices at the
point of sale, and benefits from cross-selling and
manufacturing synergies. On top of that, we assume
low acquisition-related costs in 2019 compared to
2018, when the group recorded close to €12 million
acquisition costs, which are included in our EBITDA
calculation.

Key Metrics

2018A

2019E

2020E

EBITDA margin (%)*

24.9 29.0-30.0 29.0-30.0

Debt to EBITDA (x)*

10.4

7.8-8.3

7.8-8.3

3.9

3.5-4.0

3.5-4.0

FFO interest coverage (x)

*S&P Global Ratings' adjusted. A--Actual. E--Estimate.
FFO--Funds from operations. Note that the adjusted
debt increases gradually and mechanically, reflecting
accrued interests under the debt-like preferred shares.

• Capital expenditures (capex) of about €14 million in
2019 to support the group's manufacturing plants
(including the building of a second filing line in
France) and optimization of its insourcing strategy.
• Working capital outflows of €10 million, reflecting
sales development and increase of stocks required
for the production of the acquired portfolios.
• Bolt-on acquisitions limited to €20 million to
strengthen the portfolio of brands in European
countries where the group already has an
established commercial presence.

Base-case projections
We expect only a modest rebound in credit metrics in 2019-2020, with leverage to remain above 5x and constraining the
ratings. We do not expect Alpha to materially reduce its sizable adjusted debt in 2019-2020; it will likely remain at €1.0
billion. Our estimate of debt includes €780 million adjusted by around €260 million of preferred shares issued at Alpha
Topco. We exclude €400 million of shareholder loans, since we assess those as equity-like instruments under our
criteria.
We assume adjusted EBITDA of €120 million-€130 million in 2019, reflecting improved margins and €130

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 4

Alpha BidCo SAS

million-€140 million in 2020. As such, we assume group leverage of 7.8x-8.3x in 2019, remaining at the same level in
2020 as improvement in EBITDA is naturally offset by accrued interests of the preferred shares. Note that our adjusted
EBITDA for 2018 was impacted by costs mainly related to the asset acquisition deal Sanofi.
We anticipate robust free operating cash flow (FOCF) of €50 million-€60 million in the next 12-18 months This will be
accompanied by continued working capital discipline with limited working capital outflows and capex needs that
should be contained at 3% of sales. It reflects the asset-light model of the group as circa two third of manufacturing
activities are being outsourced.
We factor no major acquisition in our base case We assume the group will continue to acquire brands in Europe where
the group has already an established commercial presence, as well as developing alternative potential growth
initiatives abroad.

Company Description
Alpha BidCo SAS is the holding company of France-based Cooper and Netherlands-based Vemedia. The group is a
European over-the-counter drug manufacturer and distributor with a granular portfolio of brands including Oenobiol
(Cosmetics), Stardea (food supplements), Valdispert (calming and sleeping), and Excilor (medical foot care). The group
outsources most of its manufacturing activities to Contract Manufacturing Organizations (CMOs). However, it still has
three main production sites, one in the Netherlands and two in Paris.
The two businesses are highly complementary, with Cooper having a strong footprint in France, and Vemedia across
the Netherlands, Belgium, France, Italy, Spain, and Portugal.
The company reported revenues of €388 million and adjusted EBITDA of €96 million in 2018.
British private equity firm Charterhouse is Alpha Bidco SAS' largest shareholder since 2016 with 85% of the shares.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 5

Alpha BidCo SAS

Chart 1

Chart 2

Business Risk: Fair
Alpha's niche market positions and strong brand recognition, valuable distribution platform, and solid margins all
underpin the company's business risk profile. That said, lack of scale compared with larger generic pharmaceutical
groups and participation in a market that faces noteworthy competitive pressures remain negative credit factors.
Alpha operates in the defensive and highly profitable OTC medication markets in France, the Netherlands, and
marginally in Italy. The group has niche product leadership positions in most of its top-selling brands (top-20 for
Cooper and top-five for Vemedia) thanks to strong and resilient brand reputations. Lastly, the group benefits from four
scalable brands in the dermatology and well-being segments (namely Hexomedine, Hemoclar, Essaven, and Foille) as
part of the Sanofi asset acquisition.
We believe Alpha has the potential for profitable organic growth, as it taps into innovation and product-extension
opportunities in niche categories. Alpha has regularly tried to supplement its growth with acquisitions, as evidenced by
the acquisition of the 12 Sanofi brands and other, smaller tuck-in acquisitions over the past 12 months. Over the
coming quarters, we believe Alpha will continue to pursue bolt-on acquisition to enhance its market position in the
European OTC drug and self-care market.
We believe Cooper's and Vemedia's footprints and business models complement each other, with limited overlap.
Cooper has an extensive distribution platform and has expanded through product innovation under an umbrella brand
strategy. We view Cooper's long-standing relationships with a dense network of pharmacies, which are the only
authorized distributors of OTC drugs in France, as a key competitive advantage. We believe Cooper has an efficient
operating model based on integrated logistics and a successful marketing push strategy supported by a dedicated
salesforce. Vemedia, on the other hand, has expanded through a build-and-buy model and acquired several products
and companies over the past years, enabling brand and geographic expansion. This was supported by an efficient pull

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 6

Alpha BidCo SAS

strategy with strong advertisement and promotion spent to gain market share or consolidate its position. In the
Netherlands, its historical market, it distributes exclusively via drugstores.
These operating strengths are somewhat offset by Alpha's small size based on revenues and low absolute market share
of 4% for Cooper in the highly fragmented French OTC medication market. Vemedia's addressable market in niche
OTC categories is relatively small, although it enjoys a healthy 15% market share in the Netherlands. Overall, we
believe its brand recognition and differentiation in the eyes of the consumer, as well as low substitution between
product categories, provide some protection to the sales volumes and pricing of Western Europe-based OTC
manufacturers. Finally, current restrictions on sales of OTC medication through general retail channels represent a
high barrier to entry for Alpha.
That said, Cooper and Vemedia compete in some of their product categories with large pharmaceutical and consumer
goods companies, most of which have broader scale and marketing capabilities. The key to successful product strategy
for the group lies, therefore, in avoiding product groups where large competitors channel their investment to maximize
the international potential of their blockbuster brands.
The group has some geographic concentration as it is dependent on two core countries—France and
Netherlands--which represent 61% and 16%, respectively, of 2018 pro forma sales. Although both countries have large,
profitable markets for OTC medication, the group could be exposed to unpredictable changes in the regulatory
environment governing distribution and registration of OTC medication as well as any countrywide competitive
actions on behalf of multinational companies. In Italy, the group is implementing a gradual strategic shift toward direct
distribution, which was supported by the creation of a new sales representative team.
Lastly, the group still lacks critical mass and is likely to seek further consolidation opportunities to improve its
operating leverage.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
We consider Alpha's capital structure as highly leveraged, reflecting its financial sponsor ownership by private equity
firm Charterhouse and our estimate that the company's S&P Global Ratings-adjusted debt to EBITDA will remain close
to 8.0x (and 6.0 excluding preferred shares) over the next 12-18 months.
We assume the group will be able to maintain solid adjusted FFO cash interest coverage of above 3.5x over the
forecast horizon.
We project the group's FOCF will reach an absolute run-rate level of €50 million for 2019 and €60 million for 2020.
This high cash flow conversion should continue to be supported by the group's organic growth, limited bolt-on
acquisitions, and contained working capital requirements.
The company does not publicly disclose its financial information.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 7

Alpha BidCo SAS

Liquidity: Adequate
We assess Alpha's liquidity as adequate, reflecting our view that the company's sources of cash should exceed its uses
by more than 1.2x over the next 12 months.
We do not see near-term debt refinancing risks and project positive internal cash flow generation, which should
support the company's cash balances. However, our liquidity assessment is constrained by the likelihood of a
significant debt-funded acquisition whose magnitude would be greater than our base-case assumption. Also, any loss
in brand reputation on its key product will be critical for the company's liquidity given its small size.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Cash and cash equivalents of about €117 million as
of March 31, 2019;

• Working capital outflow of about €10 million;

• An undrawn multipurpose revolving credit facility
(RCF) of €60 million; and

• Maximum seasonal working capital requirement of
about €30 million; and
• Capex of about €14 million.

• About €80 million of annual cash FFO.

Debt maturities
Following the refinancing that occurred on June 29, 2018, the group has no near-term debt maturity.
• Multipurpose RCF: 2023
• €776 million term loan B: 2025

Covenant Analysis
The RCF is subject to a springing covenant, triggered if the revolver is drawn above 40%, with the senior net leverage
ratio below 8.5x.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• Our issue rating on the €776 million senior secured term loan B is 'B'.
• The recovery rating is '3', indicating our expectation of meaningful recovery (30%-50%; rounded estimate: 45%).
The recovery rating is constrained by the sizable amount senior secured debt.
• In our hypothetical default scenario, we assume material deterioration in the economy and reputational damage to
one of Alpha's portfolio's brands.
• We value the group as a going concern given its valuable distribution network.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 8

Alpha BidCo SAS

Simulated default assumptions
• Year of default: 2022
• Jurisdiction: France

Simplified waterfall
• EBITDA at emergence: €76 million (minimum capex at 1% of upcoming projected two years' annual average
revenues, based on the company's average minimum capex requirement trend, no cyclicality adjustment, and an
operational adjustment of +40% to reflect the impact of Vemedia and portfolio of brands' acquisitions leading to
higher valuation).
• Multiple: 6.0x, the standard anchor multiple for the sector.
• Gross enterprise value: €454 million.
• Net enterprise value (after 5% admin. costs): €431 million.
• Secured first-lien debt*: €852 million.
• Recovery range: 50%-70% (rounded 50%).
Note: All debt amounts include six months of prepetition interest. *Includes €60 million of RCF drawn at 85%.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B/Stable/--

Business risk: Fair

• Country risk: Low
• Industry risk: Low
• Competitive position: Fair
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: b
Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: FS-6 (no additional impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 9

Alpha BidCo SAS

Stand-alone credit profile : b

Related Criteria
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria | Corporates | Recovery: Methodology: Jurisdiction Ranking Assessments, Jan. 20, 2016
• Criteria | Corporates | Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Branded Nondurables Industry, May 7, 2015
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate
Issuers, Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - General: The Treatment Of Non-Common Equity Financing In Nonfinancial Corporate
Entities, April 29, 2014
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Stand-Alone Credit Profiles: One Component Of A Rating, Oct. 1, 2010
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Business Risk Profile
Excellent
Strong

Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

Fair

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Satisfactory

Ratings Detail (As Of September 6, 2019)*
Alpha BidCo SAS
Issuer Credit Rating

B/Stable/--

Senior Secured

B

Issuer Credit Ratings History
25-Apr-2018

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

B/Stable/--

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 10

Alpha BidCo SAS

Ratings Detail (As Of September 6, 2019)*(cont.)
Related Entities
Cheese TopCo B.V.
Senior Secured

B

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 11

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 12

