Omnitracs Holdings LLC
Primary Credit Analyst:
Ejikeme Okonkwo, CFA, New York + 1 (212) 438 1706; Ejikeme.Okonkwo@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Tuan Duong, New York + 1 (212) 438 5327; tuan.duong@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 1

Omnitracs Holdings LLC
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b

b

b

B/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key Strengths

Key Risks

Good competitive position in the fragmented fleet management software
(FMS) industry.

Narrow product and end-market focus, with exposure to the cyclical
transportation industry.

Increasing recurring revenue base and solid customer retention rates,
providing some revenue visibility.

Limited scale and geographical diversification compared to other
enterprise software providers.
Leverage expected to remain about 6x in fiscal year 2019 (ending
Sept. 30, 2019).

We expect an increasing recurring revenue base to partly offset cyclical conditions in the transportation industry.
Omnitracs' business focuses on providing FMS products and services to the long- and short-haul transportation
industry. Combined with relatively limited scale based on revenues, we believe its credit metrics could be somewhat
more exposed to the cyclical nature of this end market than those of larger diversified peers like Trimble Inc. At the
same time, we note that Omnitracs' increasing recurring revenue contributions (about 78% of total revenues), largely
from subscription-based software sales, and its high customer retention rates in the mid-90% area provide some
revenue visibility.
We expect limited leverage improvements over the next 12 months due to ongoing investments and slower growth.
Following a temporary boost to revenue growth in fiscal 2018 from the need for U.S. trucking companies to comply
with new safety rules, we expect revenue growth to normalize to the low-single-digit percentage area in fiscals 2019
and 2020. This should be driven by Omnitracs' ongoing growth investments, including the development of the
Omnitracs One cloud-based, unified product platform, the integration of recently acquired workflow solutions (Blue
Dot in March 2019) to this platform, and product upgrades.
However, we believe the associated costs of these actions could lead to slight EBITDA margin compression, keeping
leverage around the 6x area in fiscal 2019, reducing in fiscal 2020 with margins benefitting from an expanding
recurring revenue base.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 2

Omnitracs Holdings LLC

Outlook

The stable outlook reflects S&P Global Ratings' expectation that Omnitracs will maintain modest revenue and
EBITDA growth through new customer gains, increased penetration of premium applications, and operating
efficiency gains. Therefore, leverage would be maintained below the 6x area over the next 12 months.

Downside scenario
We could lower the rating if revenue declines, stemming from reduced customer renewal rates or unfavorable
macro trends in the trucking industry, lead to low-single-digit percentage free cash flow as a portion of debt or
sustained leverage above the 7x area over the next 12 months.

Upside scenario
Although unlikely over the next 12 months because of the company's financial sponsor ownership structure, which
could limit sustained deleveraging, we could consider an upgrade over the longer term if Omnitracs maintains
consistent operating performance while committing to leverage below 5x on a sustained basis.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 3

Omnitracs Holdings LLC

Assumptions

• U.S. real GDP growth of about 2.5% in calendar year
2019 and about 2% in 2020. However, we believe
significant macroeconomic uncertainties could affect
the transportation industry and Omnitracs' growth
prospects, including the U.S.-China trade situation.
• Revenue growth of 0.5%-1.5% in fiscal 2019 and
2%-3% in fiscal 2020, following growth of nearly
13% in fiscal 2018. The slowdown in fiscal 2019
largely reflects weaker equipment sales after peak
demand a year earlier related to the implementation
of the electronic logging device (ELD) compliance.
Growth remains driven by increasing recurring
revenues through customer wins and upselling and
cross-selling to existing customers.

Key Metrics

2018A

2019E

2020E

Debt to EBITDA (x)

5.9 5.9-6.2 5.6-5.8

FOCF to debt (%)

9.5

EBITDA interest coverage (x)

2.5

7-8

9-11

3-3.2 3.4-3.7

All figures are S&P Global Ratings-adjusted.
A--Actual. E--Estimate. FOCF--Free operating cash
flow.

• S&P Global Ratings-adjusted EBITDA margins of
26.5%-27.5% in fiscal 2019 and 27.5%-28.5% in
fiscal 2020, from about 27.5% in fiscal 2018. Fiscal
2019 margins are expected to be slightly affected by
ongoing growth investments in new products and
upgrades to existing products. The improvement in
fiscal 2020 is supported by increased higher-margin
recurring revenues and continued cost efficiencies.
• Net working capital outflow of $4 million-$6 million
in fiscal 2019 and break-even in 2020.
• Annual reported capital expenditures (capex) of $20
million-$22 million in fiscal 2019 and $17
million-$20 million in fiscal 2020, including
capitalized software development costs.
• Annual mandatory term loan amortization of about
$7.5 million.
• No assumed dividends or acquisitions.

Base-case projections
Low-single-digit percentage revenue growth is expected in fiscals 2019 and 2020. As part of a strategic shift toward
greater subscription-based software and services revenues, we expect that customer adoption of Omnitracs One,
which aims to unify the company's various software products under a single device–agnostic, cloud-based platform,
will support cross-selling and upselling efforts. In our view, this could also strengthen the competitiveness of its
product portfolio, promoting its ability to win further customers. As a result, we forecast low- to mid-single-digit
percentage recurring revenue growth over the next two financial years. However, we expect this to be significantly
offset in fiscal 2019 by a double-digit percentage decline in nonrecurring revenues due to an ELD-related drop in
equipment sales year-on-year in the first two financial quarters.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 4

Omnitracs Holdings LLC

EBITDA margins expected to decline slightly in fiscal 2019 before improving in fiscal 2020. We expect a slight decline
in fiscal 2019 EBITDA margins due to increased research and development (R&D) costs to support both device and
software product updates, the Blue Dot acquisition and integration costs, and a reserve of about $2 million taken due
to a customer under financial difficulty in Mexico. In fiscal 2020, we expect that a reduction in some of these items,
increased recurring revenue base, and ongoing cost optimization efforts will help improve margins.

Company Description
Based in Dallas, Omnitracs provides fleet management solutions to the trucking and logistics industries, accessed
through its proprietary in-cab devices or customers' mobile devices. Solutions cover productivity, telematics, routing
and dispatch, safety, and compliance. The U.S. is the company's main regional market representing about 90% of
revenues.
Omnitracs has been majority owned by private equity sponsor Vista Equity Partners since it was spun off from
Qualcomm in 2013.

Business Risk
Our assessment incorporates the view that Omnitracs' narrow product and end-market focus leaves it more exposed to
inherent transportation industry cyclicality than large and diversified enterprise software companies. We believe
Omnitracs' limited scale, with revenues below $500 million, and its lack of significant geographic diversification
contribute to this. We also view the FMS industry as fragmented and competitive, with providers including pure-play
companies like Samsara and Geotab and diversified players like Trimble, Verizon, and Continental. We also consider
the long-haul trucking market, representing Omnitracs' historical focus, to be mature, with lower long-term growth
prospects than the e-commerce driven short-haul and last-mile markets. Omnitracs is looking to increase its presence
in the latter markets.
However, Omnitracs' continued shift in revenue mix toward recurring software-based revenues--about 78% of total
revenues in the 12 months ended June 2019 compared to about 67% in fiscal 2015--should help provide greater
revenue predictability and improve EBITDA margins over time. We believe this strategy will be supported by the
Omnitracs One platform that will make it easier to sell premium applications to existing customers, improve data
analytics capabilities, and reduce the cost and time to develop and deploy new applications. We also note that the
company benefits from long-tenured customer relationships with retention rates in the mid-90% area, supported by
good brand recognition in the more stable enterprise fleet-size market and multiyear subscription contracts.

Financial Risk
Our assessment largely reflects our expectation of leverage above 5.5x in the next 12 months. We expect EBITDA
growth from low-single-digit percentage organic revenue growth and slight EBITDA margin expansion to support
potential deleveraging. However, we believe that long-term deleveraging below 5x could be affected by the company's
financial sponsor ownership.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 5

Omnitracs Holdings LLC

Omnitracs benefits from significant free operating cash flow (FOCF) generation due to its relatively modest capex
(expected to be about 3%-5% of revenues in fiscals 2019 and 2020) and lowered interest payments of $35 million-$40
million following a debt refinancing transaction in March 2018. We thus expect it to generate $50 million-$60 million of
adjusted FOCF in fiscal 2019.
Our adjusted debt, operating cash flow, and EBITDA include our standard adjustments for operating leases, capitalized
software development costs, and share-based compensation. We do not net accessible cash from our debt figures.

Liquidity
We assess Omnitracs' liquidity as adequate. This reflects our expectation that sources will exceed uses by over 9x in
the 12 months starting July 1, 2019, and that net sources will remain positive even with a 15% decline in EBITDA.
While these metrics permit a higher liquidity score, our assessment is constrained by a lack of history in accessing
public credit markets and our view that Omnitracs could not absorb a high-impact, low-probability event without
refinancing.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• About $123 million cash and short-term investments
as of June 30, 2019;

• Net working capital outflow of $1 million-$3 million;

• Full availability under the $50 million committed
revolving credit facility (RCF) expiring on March 23,
2023; and

• Capex of $18 million-$20 million, including
capitalized software development costs; and
• Annual mandatory debt amortization of about $7.5
million.

• Funds from operations of $85 million-$88 million.

Debt maturities
There is an initial $745 million senior secured term loan maturing on March 23, 2025, and with a 1% annual mandatory
amortization, which we believe Omnitracs has sufficient funds to meet. The outstanding balance on the term loan is
about $738 million.

Covenant Analysis
Omnitracs' RCF has a springing covenant, based on net first-lien leverage, tested when the facility is drawn by at least
40%. We do not expect the RCF to be drawn at this level over the next 12 months, but we expect that the company
would have at least 40% EBITDA decline headroom if the RCF is drawn by 40%.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 6

Omnitracs Holdings LLC

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key Analytical Factors

• Our 'B' issue-level ratings on the senior secured term loan due in March 2025 and the RCF due in March 2023
are based on '3' recovery ratings. This reflects an expectation for meaningful recovery (50%-70%; rounded
estimate: 50%) in the event of a payment default.
• Our simulated default scenario assumes major customer contract losses and EBITDA margin erosion arising
from heightened competitive and economic pressures.
• We value the company as a going concern, reflecting its strong customer relationships.

Simulated Default Assumptions

Simplified Waterfall

• Year of default: 2022

• Gross enterprise value: $450.6 million

• Emergence EBITDA after recovery adjustments:
about $75 million

• Net enterprise value (after 5% administrative costs):
about $428 million

• EBITDA multiple: 6x

• Valuation split (obligors/nonobligors): 90%/10%
• Value available for senior secured claim: about $413
million
• Estimated senior secured claim*: $783.8 million
• --Recovery expectations**: 50%-70% (rounded
estimate: 50%)
*All debt amounts include six months of prepetition
interest. RCF is assumed drawn by 85% at default.
**Rounded down to the nearest 5%.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B/Stable/--

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: Very low

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 7

Omnitracs Holdings LLC

• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: b
Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: FS-6 (no additional impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, July 1, 2019
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, April 1, 2019
• General Criteria: Methodology For Linking Long-Term And Short-Term Ratings, April 7, 2017
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria | Corporates | Recovery: Methodology: Jurisdiction Ranking Assessments, Jan. 20, 2016
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate
Issuers, Dec. 16, 2014
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria | Corporates | Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Technology Software And Services Industry, Nov.
19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities, Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 8

Omnitracs Holdings LLC

Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Business Risk Profile
Excellent
Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

Ratings Detail (As Of September 25, 2019)*
Omnitracs Holdings, LLC
Issuer Credit Rating

B/Stable/--

Issuer Credit Ratings History
25-Sep-2019

B/Stable/--

Related Entities
Omnitracs, LLC
Issuer Credit Rating

B/Stable/--

Senior Secured

B

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 9

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 10

