Paducah Power System, Kentucky;
Retail Electric
Primary Credit Analyst:
Scott W Sagen, New York (1) 212-438-0272; scott.sagen@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Jeffrey M Panger, New York (1) 212-438-2076; jeff.panger@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Rationale
Outlook
Utility Description
Enterprise Risk
Financial Risk

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 16, 2019 1

Paducah Power System, Kentucky; Retail Electric
Credit Profile
US$19.955 mil rfdg rev bnds ser 2019A due 10/01/2023
Long Term Rating

BBB/Stable

New

BBB(SPUR)/Stable

Downgraded

BBB/Stable

Downgraded

BBB/Stable

Downgraded

BBB(SPUR)/Stable

Downgraded

Paducah Pwr Sys elec (AGC)
Unenhanced Rating
Paducah Pwr Sys ICR
Long Term Rating
Paducah Pwr Sys RETELEC
Long Term Rating
Paducah Pwr Sys (AGM)
Unenhanced Rating
Many issues are enhanced by bond insurance.

Rationale
S&P Global Ratings lowered its underlying rating (SPUR) and long-term rating on the Electric Power Board of the City
of Paducah, Ky.'s power system (d/b/a Paducah Power System [PPS]) to 'BBB' from 'A-'. At the same time, S&P Global
Ratings assigned its 'BBB' long-term rating to the utility's $19.9 million series 2019A refunding revenue bonds. The
outlook is stable.
The negative rating action reflects the application of our "U.S. Municipal Retail Electric And Gas Utilities: Methodology
And Assumptions" criteria (published Sept. 27, 2018, on RatingsDirect). The rating action also reflects a combination of
the system's very high rates, low income levels, and high debt burden, all of which limit its financial flexibility, coupled
with what we view to be an unfavorable power supply concentrated in a single coal-fired asset. Although we note these
credit weaknesses were present previously, under the revised criteria, they contribute to a lower ratings.
A first-lien pledge of the electric system's net revenues secures the bonds. Officials plan to use series 2019A bonds to
refund a portion of the system's series 2009A bonds for interest cost savings. PPS had $145.8 million in total debt
outstanding as of June 30, 2019.
The rating further reflects our opinion of the electric system's adequate enterprise and financial risk profiles.
The enterprise risk profile reflects our view of the system's:
• Adequate service area economic fundamentals, reflecting its stable and diverse electric customer base, offset by
below-average city income levels which limits revenue-raising flexibility;
• Extremely strong industry risk relative to other industries and sectors;
• Highly vulnerable market position, as evidenced by its 2017 weighted average electric system rate that was 33.7%
above the state average, coupled with its below-average incomes which limit its revenue-raising flexibility;

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 16, 2019 2

Paducah Power System, Kentucky; Retail Electric

• Vulnerable operational and management assessment (OMA), due to its concentrated power supply heavily
dependent on coal, with the Prairie State project providing 94% of total energy in 2018, although Paducah also has
110 megawatts (MW) of combustion turbine capacity and a small allocation of hydro power. Finally, we consider
financial management practices to be sufficient as evidenced by its multiyear financial projections that meet its debt
service coverage (DSC) and liquidity targets and are updated annually along with its multiyear capital plan.
The financial risk profile reflects our view of the system's:
• Adequate coverage metrics, as evidenced by maintaining at least 1.1x fixed-charge coverage, which includes its
portion of Kentucky Municipal Power Agency's (KMPA) debt service as a fixed debt-like obligation, over the past
three audited fiscal years. In addition, we believe coverage metrics to be sustainable based on our view of the
system's multiyear financial forecast;
• Very strong liquidity and reserves for a distribution system, with $23.9 million in available liquidity for fiscal 2019, or
138 days' cash on hand, after including the system's $5 million committed line of credit; and
• Highly vulnerable debt and liabilities profile, as suggested by its high debt-to-capitalization ratio equal to 87% in
fiscal 2018, which we believe will slowly decline given the system's lack of additional debt needs.

Outlook
The stable outlook reflects the system's consistent fixed-charge coverage and very strong liquidity position, which will
help cushion potentially higher power costs or the magnitude of future rate adjustments. In addition, we expect the
Prairie State power project will continue to operate without significant operational or mechanical issues.

Upside scenario
We do not anticipate a higher rating over the next two years given the utility's high rates, weak income levels, and
concentration in a single coal-fired asset. However, should coverage levels materially improve beyond projected levels,
the rating could be raised.

Downside scenario
If the system's financial performance (including coverage and liquidity) weakens significantly, or if the Prairie State
project encounters operational issues that diminish PPS' competitive position, we could lower the rating.

Utility Description
The PPS distribution system serves 22,640 electric customers in McCracken County, which serves as a regional retail
and health care hub in western Kentucky. PPS has contracted for an 83.9% (104 MW) share of KMPA's interest in
Prairie State. Princeton, Ky., has a 16.1% share (20 MW). Paducah is responsible for 83.9% of KMPA's energy,
capacity, and operating and debt service costs. However, including a 20% step-up applied to its share, Paducah is
potentially obligated to cover all of KMPA's project costs in the event of a Princeton default. Payments under the
power sales agreement are operating expenses of each participant, ahead of any debt service on the system's direct
debt.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 16, 2019 3

Paducah Power System, Kentucky; Retail Electric

Enterprise Risk
Economic fundamentals: Adequate
We consider the system's service area economy to be adequate as evidenced by a stable customer base that is diverse,
with the 10 leading customers accounting for just 17% of total revenue in fiscal 2018. In addition, leading customers
include entities providing essential services, including two hospitals, city government, and West Kentucky Community
and Technical College. We believe service area income levels are weak with city median household effective buying
income (MHHEBI) equal to 70% of the national average in 2018, which we believe limits the system's revenue-raising
flexibility. Officials indicated industrial customers accounted for 45% of total revenue fiscal 2018, followed by
residential (40%) and commercial (14%) customers. In addition, city average annual unemployment levels were 2.1%
above the national average in 2018.

Industry risk: Extremely strong
Consistent with our "Methodology: Industry Risk" criteria (published Nov. 19, 2013), we consider industry risk for
municipal retail electric and gas utilities covered under these criteria as very low, and therefore extremely strong when
compared with other industries and sectors.

Market position: Highly vulnerable
We believe the system's above-average rates reflect the effects of supporting its high debt burden and its long power
position. In addition, the service area's low income levels and high rates limit the system's revenue-raising flexibility.
Management has taken measures to sell excess capacity to Kentucky Municipal Energy Agency (KyMEA), which will
help lower its power costs. Based on the U.S. Energy Information Administration's latest available data from 2017, the
system's weighted average system rate competitiveness (based on relative customer classes' revenue contributions)
was 33.7%above the state average. However, this rate competitiveness information does not incorporate the recent
total rate reductions of 3.2% in 2017 and 1.9% in 2018. We believe the presence of an automatic power cost
adjustment that is made quarterly and recovers costs over a 12-month period, is credit supportive. The board has full
rate-setting authority, and currently the system has not included potential base-rate increases in its financial forecast.

Operational management assessment: Vulnerable
The system's power supply is heavily reliant on coal and its dependence on a single coal-based asset exposes the
utility to shaft risk where an outage can be disruptive to its cost structure. However, the Prairie State project, which
accounted for a concentrated 94% of the system's energy in 2018, has improved its operational performance (including
its net capacity factor and availability factor) to above 80% in 2019.
Paducah acquired its stake in the Prairie State project to replace energy delivered under its previous wholesale
contract with the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA), which terminated at the system's option. PPS also owns two gas
peaking power plants totaling 120 MW. Compared with total capacity of 241 MW, Paducah's peak demand in fiscal
2019 was 136 MW, giving it off-system sales opportunities. For example, Paducah has entered into a contract with
KyMEA to sell 90 MW in excess peaking capacity through May 2022, and management uses annual capacity revenue
to lower its power costs.
We consider the system's revenue-setting and financial management practices to be sufficient and management's

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 16, 2019 4

Paducah Power System, Kentucky; Retail Electric

financial projections indicate it will meet its DSC and liquidity targets of 1.4x and $11 million, respectively. In addition,
the system's three-year financial projections and capital needs are updated annually.

Financial Risk
Coverage metrics: Adequate
In our view, the system has consistently maintained fixed-charge coverage, which includes its portion of KMPA's debt
service as a fixed debt-like obligation, equal to at least 1.1x over the past three years. Pledged net revenues in fiscal
2018 provided 1.12x fixed-charge coverage, after excluding certain noncash pension expenses. Following the
refunding, management financial projections indicate maintaining at least 1.1x through fiscal 2022, which does not
include any base-rate increases.

Liquidity and reserves: Very strong
The distribution system's available liquidity is a credit strength with $23.9 million in available liquidity in fiscal 2018, or
a very strong 138 days' cash on hand, including the system's $5 million committed line of credit. Although projected
liquidity levels reflect a decline from $31 million in fiscal 2017 to about $18 million in fiscal 2020, the system plans to
fund capital needs from operations and does not currently have formal plans to raise rates. Despite this decline, we
believe very strong levels will be maintained in excess of 104 days' cash on hand through fiscal 2022.

Debt and liabilities: Highly vulnerable
At the end of fiscal 2019, KMPA had about $468 million of bonds, for which PPS' allocation is $393 million. In addition,
Paducah had direct debt of $150.9 million as of June 2018, resulting in a high debt-to-capitalization ratio equal to 87%.
Officials have identified $15.1 million in capital needs it intends to fund from operations through fiscal 2022, and
currently management does not have plans to issue additional debt. (For more information on the KMPA bonds, see
the summary analysis published Aug. 16, 2019, on RatingsDirect.)

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 16, 2019 5

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 16, 2019 6

