American Trailer World Corp.
Primary Credit Analyst:
James T Siahaan, CFA, New York (1) 212-438-3023; james.siahaan@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Henry Fukuchi, New York (1) 212-438-2023; henry.fukuchi@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 17, 2019 1

American Trailer World Corp.
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b

b

b

B/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key Strengths

Key Risks

Leading positions in the manufacturing and distributing of professional and Participation in cyclical end markets, including agriculture and
consumer-grade trailers, parts, and accessories in North America.
construction, tempered somewhat by general industrial exposure.
Advantaged product costs relative to smaller competitors, though still
subject to commodity cost volatility, which may be exacerbated by tariffs.

Relatively narrow scope of operations.
Limited geographic diversity, as production and sales are largely
domestic.
Potential for aggressive financial policies, considering the financial
sponsor owner (affiliates of Bain Capital L.P.).
Leveraged capital structure, with an adjusted debt-to-EBITDA ratio
of 5.0x at March 31, 2019.

Performance has been flat, but credit measures remain appropriate for the rating. With steel accounting for roughly
30% of its materials costs, tariff-exacerbated higher prices of steel and axles along with general softening of trailer
demand pushed American Trailer World Corp.'s (ATW's) revenue down by 1.3% in the June quarter. Adjusted
EBITDA margins are also under a bit of pressure, though operational execution has kept them at a sufficient level so
far, despite additional costs pertaining to facility disruption and the former CEO's transition. The magnitude of the
deterioration has not been significant, the company is undergoing lean initiatives and emphasizing better commercial
execution to offset, and credit measures (including adjusted debt to EBITDA of 5.0x as June 30, 2019) remain
appropriate for the ratings.
ATW's dominant market share and aftermarket parts business provide insulation during downturns. ATW estimates
that its share of the trailer industry is roughly 30%, exceeding the estimated 23% controlled by its next five
competitors. The company is able to act as a consolidator in the space, particularly during downturns, as smaller
competitors sell assets. In addition, ATW sells aftermarket parts to dealers and other original equipment manufacturers
(OEMs). This part of the business is less cyclical than trailer sales, and ATW has grown this part of its operations to
account for almost 20% of its revenues from only 5% during the last recession.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 17, 2019 2

American Trailer World Corp.

Outlook: Stable

S&P Global Ratings' stable outlook on Richardson, Texas-based ATW reflects the expectation that the company's
leading market position and focus on operational execution should support solid performance and yield an
adjusted debt-to-EBITDA ratio within the 5.0x-6.0x range. This is despite tariffs on steel, higher material costs, and
investments in the sales channel. The company's good relationships with its dealers and distribution outlets, the
low cost of its products compared with its end customers' total project costs, and contributions from acquisitions
should also support its operating performance; however, the demand for trailers may ebb during cyclical troughs.

Downside scenario
We could lower our rating on ATW if its earnings dropped significantly, causing total debt-to-EBITDA to exceed
6.0x without clear prospects for recovery. This could occur if the company faced lower volumes from cancelled
construction projects, lower truck and consumer trailer sales due to lower sales of all-terrain vehicles and other
discretionary items, the loss of a key big-box retail customer, or an inability to effectively manage its cost structure.
An unexpected large debt-financed acquisition or shareholder return could also cause credit measures to
deteriorate to that level. Based on our downside scenario, this could occur if ATW's operating margins weakened
by more than 200 basis points (bps).

Upside scenario
Given our current assessment of Bain Capital's financial policies, we view an upgrade over the next 12 months as
unlikely. However, we could raise our rating on ATW by one notch if the company maintained debt-to-EBITDA of
4.0x-5.0x, funds from operations (FFO)-to-debt of near 20%, and a consistently positive free cash flow-to-debt ratio
with no prospects for near-term material deterioration. Any additional upgrades would likely depend on whether
the company can meaningfully strengthen its business risk profile through the continued enhancement of its
market position and product offerings, as well as better pricing and operating efficiencies.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 17, 2019 3

American Trailer World Corp.

Assumptions

• We expect ATW's sales to grow by 0%-2% in 2019,
impacted by general volume contraction in the
industry and slower deployment of Trailer World
retail locations, offset by contributions from the
Nuera Transport (Feb. 2018) and BWise (Aug. 2019)
acquisitions, market share gains (particularly on the
professional-grade side), and some pricing
pass-through.

Key Metrics

2018A

2019E

2020E

Adj. EBITDA margin(%)

13 12.0-13.0 12.7-13.2

Debt to EBITDA (x)

5.6

FFO to debt (%)

4.7-5.2

4.3-4.7

11.4 10.0-12.0 12.0-13.0

Free operating cash flow to debt (%)

6.5

5.0-7.0

7.0-8.0

A--Actual. E--Estimated. FFO--Funds from operations.

• ATW's margins contract slightly in 2019 on
operating leverage, facility disruption costs, CEO
transition costs, and the tariffs' impact on costs; this
is partially offset by price increases, production
efficiencies, and cost-saving initiatives.
• Capital expenditures (capex) are within the $15
million-$17 million range in 2019, which includes
outlays pertaining to a rebuild of a plant in Mexico;
they then rise to the $20 million-$25 million range in
2020 and 2021 due to additional capex necessary for
technology- and manufacturing-related investments
and outlays related to footprint optimization.
• We believe ATW will slow its pace on building out
new Trailer World locations in 2020.
• No major acquisitions, since we believe the
company's focus is on operational execution, but we
note the company has some capacity for tuck-in
deals.
• No dividends or other shareholder rewards.

Company Description
ATW is based in Texas and manufactures professional- and consumer-grade trailers. Its $1.27 billion of
trailing-12-month sales at June 30, 2019, were divided into the segments indicated below.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 17, 2019 4

American Trailer World Corp.

Chart 1

Business Risk: Weak
ATW's products are exposed to cyclical end markets. More than half of sales go to customers in the agricultural,
construction, and automotive industries. However, the company benefits from its market-leading position as a
manufacturer and distributor of professional- and consumer-grade trailers, parts, and accessories in North America.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 17, 2019 5

American Trailer World Corp.

Chart 2

The scope of the company's operations is relatively narrow and its product diversity is low. The company is focused
on the manufacture and distribution of professional-grade trailers (57% of sales) and consumer-grade trailers (17%).
Geographic diversity is also limited because the company derives most of its revenue from North America, but it has a
broad domestic reach. Somewhat offsetting these factors are the company's very good market shares (roughly 30%
and 50% for professional- and consumer-grades, respectively) and healthy replacement sales on its professional-grade
trailers. The addressable market size of this fragmented industry is limited, at roughly $7.5 billion in aggregate, with the
bulk composed of professional-grade trailers and parts, followed by other segments and consumer-grade trailers. While
there is some diversity in the end market breakdown, pro-grade trailer sales are heavily weighted towards the cyclical
agriculture (13% of sales) and construction (28%) segments. In addition, the company's recreation/other (20%)
segment exposes it to changes in discretionary consumer spending for items like camping equipment, motorcycles,
and all-terrain vehicles. During periods of economic distress, there is a risk that the company's professional-grade
trailer customers could prolong the useful life of their trailer fleets and curtail their purchases of equipment, thereby
curbing demand.
Third-party dealers account for the bulk of ATW's professional-grade trailer distribution, while consumer-grade
products are sold by key big-box retailers like Tractor Supply Co. and Lowe's (which together account for generally
over 60% of ATW's sales in the consumer-grade trailer segment). The company's extensive distribution network has

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 17, 2019 6

American Trailer World Corp.

roughly 700 core independent dealers and access to over 4,000 big-box retail locations nationwide. A dealer retention
rate of more than 90% further supports the distribution network's strength. The company operates 70 retail stores,
which helps offset some of the reliance on its dealer network for professional-grade sales. The company added 135
third-party dealers in 2018 along with seven Trailer World locations and four new parts locations. ATW's 31 TexTrail
and Nuera wholesale parts distributor locations provide it with less cyclical aftermarket sales. Supplier concentration is
moderately high because its top 10 suppliers account for about half of its purchases.
ATW is the low-cost producer in the trailer space relative to its smaller competitors, but its profitability still
deteriorated during the first six months of 2019, in line with the rest of the industry. High component costs and tepid
demand have impacted the company's ability to recoup rising costs via price actions. The company has also incurred
higher outlays for costs pertaining to the transition in the CEO role. Adjusted EBITDA margins are now approximately
12%, down 70 basis points from the end of 2018, and positioned at the lower end of the 11%-18% range that we
consider average for manufacturers. The company is partially offsetting these headwinds via lean initiatives,
commercial execution, and ongoing synergies from integrating its acquisitions.

Peer comparison
Table 1

American Trailer World Corp. -- Peer Comparison
Industry Sector: Industrial Machinery & Equipment
American Trailer World
Corp.

DexKo Global Inc.

Safe Fleet Holdings
LLC

J.B. Poindexter & Co.
Inc.

B/Stable/--

B/Stable/--

B-/Stable/--

BB-/Stable/--

Ratings as of Sept. 16, 2019

--Fiscal year ended Dec. 31, 2018-Adjusted ratios
Return on capital (%)

9.6

3.2

(6.6)

8.4

EBITDA interest coverage (x)

2.1

2.1

1.3

2.9

FFO cash interest coverage (x)

2.2

2.1

1.4

2.4

Debt/EBITDA (x)

4.6

7.8

13.2

5.1

11.4

6.1

2.1

8.3

Cash flow from operations/debt
(%)

9.0

4.4

(0.4)

9.0

FOCF/debt (%)

6.5

1.8

(1.1)

(5.6)

DCF/debt (%)

6.5

1.8

(76.5)

(5.6)

FFO/debt (%)

FFO--Funds from operations. FOCF--Free operating cash flow. DCF--Discretionary cash flow.

We include DexKo Global Inc. as a peer because the axle maker is a similarly-rated company that is a key supplier to
ATW, operates in similar end-markets, and is subject to similar dependence on commodity costs. We include Safe
Fleet Holdings LLC and J.B. Poindexter & Co. Inc. because these companies are also dependent on vehicular demand.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
Bain Capital purchased ATW in December 2015 and we recognize that Bain may choose to have the company take on
additional debt leverage. The company's adjusted debt-to-EBITDA ratio of 5.0x at June 30, 2019, is improved from

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 17, 2019 7

American Trailer World Corp.

5.9x at the same point last year, as the company has raised prices, implemented manufacturing initiatives, and saw
previously high material and freight costs ease somewhat. ATW has recently used some of the capacity under its $175
million asset-based lending (ABL) revolving credit facility due 2021 for tuck-in acquisitions, and if it continues to do
this, this could also pressure the leverage ratio. Still, we believe that ATW will maintain an adjusted debt-to-EBITDA
ratio in the 5x-6x range over the next 12-18 months, which is manageable and appropriate for the rating.

Financial summary
Table 2

American Trailer World Corp. -- Financial Summary
Industry Sector: Industrial Machinery & Equipment
--Fiscal year ended Dec. 31-2018

2017

2016

2015

EBITDA margin (%)

13.0

13.1

3.6

2.7

Return on capital (%)

9.6

7.8

(2.2)

0.7

EBITDA interest coverage (x)

2.1

1.8

0.3

0.8

FFO cash interest coverage (x)

2.2

1.7

0.1

252.7

Adjusted ratios

Debt/EBITDA (x)

4.6

5.6

35.1

25.2

11.4

7.1

(4.7)

4.0

Cash flow from operations/debt (%)

9.0

1.7

3.6

(2.2)

FOCF/debt (%)

6.5

(0.6)

1.5

(2.2)

DCF/debt (%)

6.5

(0.8)

1.2

(2.8)

FFO/debt (%)

Liquidity: Adequate
We believe ATW has adequate sources of liquidity to cover its needs over the next 12 months, with sources, including
cash and credit facility availability, of at least 1.2x its uses of liquidity or more over this time period. The company has
no maturities until 2021, when its revolver matures. Even if ATW's EBITDA declines by 15%, its net sources of
liquidity are likely to remain positive.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• The company had $45 million in cash as of June 30,
2019.

• Seasonal working capital requirement around $40
million to $50 million.

• $115 million availability under its $175 million ABL
revolving credit facility.

• Maintenance capex around $17 million.

• FFO of about $80 million-$100 million annually.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 17, 2019 8

American Trailer World Corp.

Debt maturities
Chart 3

Covenant Analysis
Compliance expectations
We expect ATW's level of revolver drawings will not result in its availability diminishing to below the threshold, so it is
unlikely that the springing covenant will apply.

Requirements
The ABL facility is subject to a springing fixed-charge coverage ratio of 1.0x when excess availability is less than the
greater of 10% of the commitment or $10 million.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• Our simulated default scenario contemplates a default in 2022 caused by a severe decline in the global
macroeconomic environment that leads to delayed and cancelled orders for the company's professional- and
consumer-grade trailers as its customers seek to extend the life of their existing trailer fleets and consumer spending
on discretionary purchases erodes meaningfully.
• We believe if the borrower defaulted, ATW's business model would continue to be viable, driven by the company's
good market position and the strength of its brands and dealer relationships.

Simulated default assumptions
• Default year: 2022

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 17, 2019 9

American Trailer World Corp.

• EBITDA multiple: 5.0x
• The $175 million ABL is 60% drawn at default

Simplified waterfall
• EBITDA at emergence: $84 million
• Gross enterprise value: $424 million
• Net enterprise value: $402 million
• Valuation split (obligors/nonobligors): 100%/0%
• Priority claims (ABL): $103 million
• Value available to first-lien debt: $300 million
• Secured note claims: $702 million
• Recovery range: 30%-50% (rounded estimate: 40%)

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B/Stable/--

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: b
Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: FS-6 (no additional impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)
Stand-alone credit profile : b

• Group credit profile: b

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 17, 2019 10

American Trailer World Corp.

• Entity status within group: Core (no impact)

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, July 1, 2019
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, April 1, 2019
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Capital Goods Industry, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Business Risk Profile
Excellent

Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

Ratings Detail (As Of September 17, 2019)*
American Trailer World Corp.
Issuer Credit Rating

B/Stable/--

Senior Secured

B

Issuer Credit Ratings History
10-Aug-2016

B/Stable/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 17, 2019 11

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 17, 2019 12

