Lonestar Resources U.S. Inc.
Primary Credit Analyst:
David Lagasse, New York + 1 (212) 438 1203; david.lagasse@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Paul B Harvey, New York (1) 212-438-7696; paul.harvey@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Other Credit Considerations
Environmental, Social, And Governance
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 26, 2019 1

Lonestar Resources U.S. Inc.
Business Risk: VULNERABLE

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

b

Financial Risk: AGGRESSIVE
Highly leveraged

b-

b-

B-/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key strengths

Key risks

High liquids component of production boosts profitability.

Smaller production and reserve size compared to peers.

Highly competitive cost structure compared to peers.

Geographically concentrated in the Eagle Ford basin.

Strong hedges in place for the remainder of 2019 and 2020 provide for cash flow
visibility.

Our expectation of negative free cash flow in 2019.

Outlook: Stable

The stable outlook on Lonestar reflects our expectation that the company will grow reserves and production while
maintaining appropriate financial measures for the rating, including funds from operations (FFO) to debt above
12% as well as adequate liquidity.

Downside scenario
We could lower the rating if Lonestar's FFO to debt fell below 12% for a prolonged period and/or liquidity
weakened. Both are likely to occur if the company's operational performance declines or it finances a large
acquisition with debt. Additionally, if crude oil and natural gas prices fall below $40/bbl and $2.50/mcf,
respectively, financial measures could approach unsustainable levels.

Upside scenario
We could raise the rating if Lonestar increased its production and reserves to levels more consistent with that of its
'B' rated peers while achieving FFO to debt of more than 20%. This would likely occur through continued
development and growth of its reserve base, sustained crude oil process of more than $65/bbl, and the decision to
keep debt balances at current levels.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 26, 2019 2

Lonestar Resources U.S. Inc.

Our Base-Case Scenario
• We expect production growth of 30% to 35% in 2019 and around 20% in 2020.
• Hedges on a material amount of production (80%-90% of 2020 expected production) provide for cash flow visibility.
• Credit measures weaken compared to 2018 due to higher debt levels but improve in 2020 on lower capital
expenditures and increased production and EBITDA growth.

Assumptions

• S&P Global Ratings' price deck assumptions for
West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil of $55 bbl
for the remainder of 2019 and thereafter;
• S&P Global Ratings' price deck assumptions for
Henry Hub natural gas of $2.25 per million British
thermal unit (mmBtu) for the remainder of 2019,
$2.50 mmBtu for 2020, $2.75 per mmBtu for 2021,
and $3.00 per mmBtu thereafter.

Key Metrics

2018A

2019E 2020E

Debt to EBITDA (x)

3.5

3.5-4

3-3.5

FFO to debt (%)

23

15-20

20-25

(19.5) (10)-(5)

(5)-5

FOCF to debt (%)

A—Actual. E—Estimate. FFO—Funds from
operations. FOCF—Free operating cash flow.

• Capital expenditures in the range of $125 million to
$135 million in 2019, reducing slightly in 2020.
• Average daily production of 14,800 boe/d to 15,000
boe/d in 2019. We expect 2020 production growth
of about 20% from 2019 levels.
• Hedges per company guidance.

Company Description
Headquartered in Texas, Lonestar is an independent oil and gas exploration and production (E&P) company operating
in the Eagle Ford basin in South Texas. Lonestar had a proved reserve base of 92.1 million boe as of Dec. 31, 2018.

Business Risk: Vulnerable
Lonestar has a small production and reserve base and is geographically concentrated in the Eagle Ford basin.
Production is among the lowest of our rated E&P companies, with a sizeable portion of undeveloped reserves (about
70% at year-end 2018) requiring significant capital spending to develop. These weaknesses are somewhat offset by the
company's significant exposure to liquids production, which is more profitable than natural gas.
Lonestar has a small but growing reserve base as of year-end 2018 with approximately 92 million boe located in its
about 57,000 net acreage position in the Eagle Ford basin. We view the lack of geographic diversity unfavorably, as it

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 26, 2019 3

Lonestar Resources U.S. Inc.

exposes cash flows to basin regulations and operating conditions. As of Dec. 31, 2018 the company's reserve base is
approximately 57% oil and about 80% liquids. We expect Lonestar to have production growth of 30% to 35% in 2019
with additional growth of about 20% in 2020 while reducing capital expenditures more in line with cash flow. We
expect liquids production to be about 70% to 75% of total production. We expect operating lease expenses of about
$6/boe to $7/boe in 2019.
The second quarter results showed a significant increase in production to 13,630 boe/d, an increase of 22% that
exceeded management's guidance. Production mix in the quarter was about 57% oil, 21% NGLs and 22% natural gas,
about in line with production mix in the second quarter of 2018. Adjusted EBITDAX improved 15% to $33.5 million
and again exceeded Lonestar's guidance. We expect 2020 production growth of about 20% on moderating capital
expenditures and cash flow neutrality depending on commodity prices.

Peer comparison
Lonestar is smaller in terms of production and reserves than similarly rated peers including Eclipse Resources, Moss
Creek, and Jagged Peak. The company's low cash operating costs and all-in finding and development costs are
competitive with those of peers.

Financial Risk: Aggressive
Financial summary
We expect Lonestar's financial ratios to weaken slightly in 2019 from 2018 due to increased debt levels. We expect
FFO to debt should average around 13% to 18% for 2019, improving to around 20% in 2020. All of S&P Global
Ratings' debt calculations include the company's preferred equity as debt. The company is well hedged for the
remainder of 2019 and into 2020 which provides some cash flow stability over the next 18 months. Also benefitting the
company is its 100% exposure to the Magellan East Houston crude oil terminal, which typically is higher than WTI
pricing. Nevertheless, despite improved crude oil price and growing production, high capital spending levels to
develop its Eagle Ford assets will result in negative cash flow in 2019.

Liquidity: Adequate
We assess the company's liquidity as adequate reflecting our expectation that cash sources will cover cash uses by
more than 1.2x over the next 12 months. Additionally, we expect Lonestar to be proactive in addressing the spending
levels should commodity prices retreat and ensure compliance with the financial maintenance covenants of its credit
facility.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 26, 2019 4

Lonestar Resources U.S. Inc.

Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Cash of $3.3 million as of June 30, 2019;

• Capital expenditures of $125 million to $135 million
in 2019 and about $115 million in 2020;

• $85 million of availability on the company's $290
million revolving credit facility; and
• FFO of $65 million to $75 million for 2019 and $85
million to $105 million in 2020.

• No near-term debt maturities; and
• No acquisitions currently modeled into our forecast.

Debt maturities
• The next maturity is $250 million unsecured notes due Jan. 1, 2023.

Covenant Analysis
Lonestar's credit facility requires the company to maintain debt to EBITDA below 4X and a minimum current ratio of 1
to 1. Lonestar was in compliance with its facility as of June 30, 2019. We expect Lonestar to remain in compliance
over the next 12 months.

Other Credit Considerations
Given Lonestar's limited scale of operations and high level of proved undeveloped reserves, we apply a negative
comparative rating analysis, which lowers the rating by one notch from the company's anchor score of 'b'. While we
expect reserves and financial measures to improve into 2020, the rating will continue to be limited due to the
company's lack of scale and diversity.

Environmental, Social, And Governance

Environmental, social, and governance factors are an important part of our rating analysis for E&P companies.
Broadly, we consider that changing attitudes toward fossil fuels are likely to lower demand and increase regulatory
requirements in the long term. Lonestar produces oil, NGLs, and natural gas.
For Lonestar in particular, the financial impact of a localized incident, tighter regulation, or community opposition
to drilling or fracking could affect the company's ability to develop and replace its reserves. We view the state of
Texas, where Lonestar operates, to have a generally positive political climate for E&P companies.
We view Lonestar's management as fair, reflecting a sound operational track record, which is instrumental in
preventing potential environmental damage while drilling.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 26, 2019 5

Lonestar Resources U.S. Inc.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• S&P Global Ratings' simulated default scenario for Lonestar assumes a sustained period of low commodity prices,
consistent with conditions of past defaults in this sector.
• We based our valuation for Lonestar's reserves on a May 31, 2019, company-provided PV-10 report, using our
recovery price deck assumptions of $50 per barrel for WTI crude oil and $3 per million Btu for Henry Hub natural
gas.
• Our analysis assumes that the borrowings under the company's senior secured reserve-based loan facility are fully
drawn at default.
• The company's unsecured debt rating remains unchanged with a recovery level rating of '2' and issue-level rating of
'B'.

Simulated default assumptions
• Simulated year of default: 2021
• Jurisdiction (Rank A): The company is headquartered in the U.S. and the majority of its revenue and assets are
domestic.

Simplified waterfall
• Net enterprise value (after 5% bankruptcy administrative costs): $501 million
• Senior secured claims: $296 million
• Recovery expectations: N.A.
• Total value available to unsecured claims: $205 million
• Senior unsecured claims: $264 million
• Recovery expectations: 70% to 90% (rounded estimate: 75%)
All amounts include six months of prepetition interest. N.A.—Not applicable.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B-/Stable/--

Business risk: Vulnerable

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Vulnerable
Financial risk: Aggressive

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 26, 2019 6

Lonestar Resources U.S. Inc.

• Cash flow/Leverage: Aggressive
Anchor: b
Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: Neutral (no impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Negative (-1 notch)
Stand-alone credit profile : b-

Related Criteria
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Oil And Gas Exploration And Production Industry,
Dec. 12, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology For Crude Oil And Natural Gas Price Assumptions For Corporates And Sovereigns,
Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Revised Assumptions For Assigning Recovery Ratings To The Debt Of Oil And
Gas Exploration And Production Companies, Sept. 14, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
• Criteria - Insurance - General: Hybrid Capital Handbook: September 2008 Edition, Sept. 15, 2008

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 26, 2019 7

Lonestar Resources U.S. Inc.

Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Business Risk Profile

Minimal

Excellent

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

Weak

bb+

Vulnerable

bb-

Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly leveraged

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

bbb

bb+

bb

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bb+

bb

bb-

b

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Ratings Detail (As Of September 26, 2019)*
Lonestar Resources U.S., Inc.
Issuer Credit Rating

B-/Stable/--

Issuer Credit Ratings History
11-Aug-2017

B-/Stable/--

Related Entities
Lonestar Resources America Inc.
Issuer Credit Rating

B-/Stable/--

Senior Unsecured

B

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 26, 2019 8

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 26, 2019 9

