Phoenix Services International LLC
Primary Credit Analyst:
Florent Blot, Paris +33 1 40 72 25 42; florent.blot@spglobal.com
Secondary Contacts:
Clara McStay, New York + 1 212 438 1705; Clara.McStay@spglobal.com
William R Ferara, New York (1) 212-438-1776; bill.ferara@spglobal.com
Pranav Natarajan, Toronto + 1 (416) 507 2576; pranav.natarajan@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 1

Phoenix Services International LLC
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b

b

b

B/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key strengths

Key risks

Average contract maturity of seven to 10 years and high customer renewal
rates provide some earnings visibility.

High correlation to cyclical steel production can result in volatile
cash flows and credit metrics.

Variable cost structure and volume-based pricing structure limit margin
volatility.

Elevated adjusted debt to EBITDA of about 5.5x.
Operates in a competitive and niche market with a small size
compared with its peers.
Sizable customer concentration.

Phoenix Services International LLC is exposed to slowing steel markets. Declining steel production in Europe is
constraining the company's earnings because this region represents close to 40% of its business. U.S.-based steel
production (about 45% of operations) had so far been more resilient, but signs of weakness have materialized as we
entered the second half of the year. As such, we forecast 2019 revenue and EBITDA to decline by 3%-5% and 8%-10%,
respectively. We expect the decline to be somewhat contained given Phoenix's three newly signed contracts as well as
a sizable degree of variable costs and fixed-pricing embedded in its activity.
A limited revenue base and debt to EBITDA of about 5.5x are key rating constraints. We view the company's
operations as relatively narrow and of lower scale compared with more highly rated industrial service companies.
While Phoenix has a solid customer retention rate and operating margins track record, its small size makes it more
vulnerable to competitive pressures and contract renewal risks, the cyclicality of steel production, and the high service
costs of its elevated debt load of about $450 million.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 2

Phoenix Services International LLC

Outlook: Stable

The stable outlook reflects our expectation that Phoenix Services International LLC will maintain credit metrics
commensurate with the current rating despite less favorable steel market conditions and operating results. We
forecast adjusted debt to EBITDA to be close to 5.5x and EBITDA interest coverage to be slightly below 3x over
the next 12 months.

Downside scenario
We could lower our ratings on Phoenix over the next 12 months if it generated EBITDA interest coverage
approaching 1.5x or adjusted debt to EBITDA close to 7x. This would most likely be caused by a large
debt-financed dividend or acquisition. We view as less likely that weaker earnings could cause this type of
deterioration in credit metrics in the near term because operating leverage is low and a good portion of the
company's revenue are contracted.

Upside scenario
We view an upgrade in the next 12 months as unlikely. Any potential upgrade would be predicated on our view
that the company and its owner would employ a more conservative financial strategy. At the same time, the
company would need to maintain stronger cash flows and credit ratios, including adjusted debt to EBITDA of less
than 4x.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 3

Phoenix Services International LLC

Assumptions

Key Metrics

• Real U.S. GDP growth of 2.5% in 2019 and 1.8% in
2020.
• Eurozone GDP growth of 1.1% and 1.4% in 2019
and 2020, respectively.
• U.S. nonresidential construction decline of 1.4% in
2019 and subsequent growth of 1.9% in 2020
• U.S. light vehicle sales of 16.7 million and 16.5
million in 2019 and 2020.

2018A 2019E 2020E
EBITDA margin (%)

25.4

22-24

23-25

Debt to EBITDA (x)

4.8

5-6

5-5.5

FFO to debt (%)

13

10-12

11-13

EBITDA interest coverage (x)

2.7

2.5-3

3

A--Actual. E—Estimate

• Average U.S. hot-rolled coil (HRC) prices of about
$600/ton-$625/ton for the rest of 2019 and in 2020.
• Lower euro to U.S. dollar exchange rate of 1.14 in
2019 and 1.15 in 2020, from 1.18 in 2018.
• Higher U.S. dollar to Brazilian real exchange rate of
3.90 in 2019 and 3.95 in 2020, from 3.65 in 2018.
• Revenue to decline by 3%-5% in 2019 and to
modestly increase thereafter as the company
executes new contracts and global steel production
stabilizes.
• Modestly lower EBITDA margins of 22%-24% in
2019 and 2020.
• Growth capital expenditures of about $30 million in
2019 and $10 million in 2020.
• Total capital spending of $60 million-$70 million in
2019, declining to about $50 million in 2020.
• No dividend payments or material acquisitions in the
next two years.

Base-case projections
Less favorable steel market conditions will affect revenue despite site additions. We foresee lower steel activity driven
by globally weaker demand from auto and construction markets to affect production volumes in the next 12 months,
especially in Europe, where close to 40% of Phoenix's serviced mills are located. New operations at three sites in the
U.S., Europe, and the United Arab Emirates should limit the contraction since they will each ramp-up through year-end
2019.
Unfavorable foreign exchange and operating costs are keeping EBITDA margins below 25%. We forecast the average
value of the euro and the Brazilian real against the U.S. dollar to depreciate by about 4% and 6%, respectively, in 2019,
affecting Phoenix's reported revenue and margins. Continued higher fuel prices and some delays in reducing variable
operating costs should also constrain the company's adjusted EBITDA margin below its 28%-30% historical range.
However, annual contract price escalations and recently accelerated labor cuts should help Phoenix maintaining its

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 4

Phoenix Services International LLC

margins slightly below last year's level of 25%.
Higher growth capital expenditures of $30 million will drive a cash flow deficit in 2019. We forecast the one-time
investments at the two newly serviced mills and lower earnings to lead to negative free cash flow of close to $15
million this year, down from a $15 million inflow in 2018. As a result, we do not anticipate any significant debt
repayment and expect adjusted debt to EBITDA to be in the mid-5x area in the next 12 months.

Company Description
Phoenix Services International LLC provides steel mills with on-site services, such as slag handling, metal recovery,
slag sales, large scrap preparation, and scrap handling. The company operates at about 30 customer sites in eight
countries across the Americas, Europe, and South Africa.

Business Risk: Weak
Phoenix's business is characterized by its exposure to the cyclical steel industry, a limited size and scope compared
with peers (about $350 million of revenue), and customer concentration (top 10 sites contribute approximately 75% of
EBITDA). Such a narrow operating profile makes the company more vulnerable to contract renewal risk and steel
markets downturns.
Phoenix is indirectly exposed to volatile steel market conditions and competition from imports through changes in
production levels (volume-based contracts). We expect weak market conditions in Europe to constrain results in 2019,
with average year-to-date HRC prices below €500 per ton causing several producers to idle capacity. To mitigate such
sensitivities, the company aims to focus its operations at lower-cost steel works, such that we expect the earnings
decrease to be somewhat limited over the next 12 months. During the 2015 downturn, Phoenix's revenue contracted
by about 12% and its EBITDA remained above $90 million, while some of its steelmaking customers experienced 30%
to 50% declines in revenue and EBITDA.
The company is also able to offset part of its exposure to steel sector fundamentals with long-term agreements
(eight-year average) including base fixed fees and price escalators (primarily for labor and fuel costs). Such agreements
are typically associated with high switching costs and have allowed Phoenix to generate solid retention rates. These
considerations, along with the company's highly variable cost structure (for about 80%), were key in maintaining stable
adjusted EBITDA margins of about 30% during the adverse global market conditions experienced in 2015 and 2016.
Phoenix's international exposure also provides relief from domestic production cycles, with the so-far more resilient
North American markets and new contracts expected to partially mitigate the weaker European activity headwind in
the next 12 months.

Peer comparison
TMS International Corp. is a direct competitor of Phoenix and its closest rated peer, with relatively similar debt
leverage of about 5x. The company is bigger in terms of scale because it operates globally at more than 70 sites and
offers raw material procurement services. Despite having lower and more commodity price-exposed EBITDA margins
in the 10% area, TMS' larger revenue base (by more than 3x) and positive free cash flow generation through steel price

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 5

Phoenix Services International LLC

cycles are the primary drivers of its higher rating.
Diversified industrial services and engineered products provider Harsco Corp. competes with Phoenix through its
environmental segment. Its wider scope of operations and end-market exposure, solid EBITDA margins close to 20%,
and robust cash flow generation and debt leverage below 3x are the main reasons for the higher credit rating.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
We expect Phoenix's lower earnings to be the primary driver of adjusted debt leverage being in the mid-5x area over
the next 12 months, from 4.8x last year. This level remains commensurate with our current rating, and we view
favorably the company's improved EBITDA interest coverage, close to 3x, following its successful refinancing
transaction at more favorable terms in 2018.
As the company finalizes its latest growth projects by year-end 2019, we forecast free operating cash flow to remain
limited beyond this period, at about $10 million per year. The capital intensity associated with Phoenix's newly
serviced mills (ranging from $5 million to $20 million) and its sizable fixed charges (about $60 million per year) have
historically constrained free cash flow levels. The company's ownership by financial sponsor Apollo Global
Management LLC could also result in any cash generated being allocated toward dividend or share repurchases, which
we view as another constraint to our assessment.
Despite key initiatives to mitigate margin volatility, Phoenix's credit metrics remain sensitive to cyclical steel markets.
We estimate that if its total revenue and operating margin were to decline by 10% and 200 basis points, respectively,
from our base case scenario, its adjusted debt to EBITDA would increase by about 1x to 6.5x. When global steel prices
reached a cyclical low point in 2015, the company's margins remained relatively stable but its adjusted EBITDA had a
peak-to-trough decline of about 20% compared with 2014, with debt leverage increasing to 5.2x from 4x.

Liquidity: Adequate
We view Phoenix's liquidity to be adequate based on the following observations and estimates:
• Liquidity sources should be close to 2x over the next year,
• Liquidity sources would continue to exceed uses, even if forecast EBITDA declined by 30%,
• Sufficient covenant headroom for forecast EBITDA to decline by 15% without the company breaching its first-lien
leverage ratio, and
• The company's sound relationships with banks and satisfactory standing in credit markets based on its ability to
refinance its capital structure last year.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 6

Phoenix Services International LLC

Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Cash and short-term investments of about $35
million as of June 30, 2019,

• Capital spending of about $60 million over the next
12 months,

• Full availability on the company's $65 million
revolving credit facility as of June, 2019, and

• Peak seasonal working capital outflow of about $15
million over the next 12 months,and

• Cash funds from operations of $50 million to $55
million over the next 12 months.

• Yearly term loan amortization of about $5 million.

Debt maturities
Phoenix does not face any significant upcoming financial obligations as its $465 million first-lien term loan matures in
March 2025.
Phoenix Services International LLC Debt Maturities
Year

Amount ($ mil.)

Description

2019

4.7

Term loan amortization

2020

4.7

Term loan amortization

2021

4.7

Term loan amortization

2022

4.7

Term loan amortization

2023

4.7

Term loan amortization, revolving facility due 2023 (fully undrawn as of June 30, 2019)

Thereafter

434

Term loan balance due 2025

Covenant Analysis
We do not expect any covenant issues over the next 12 months. Phoenix' credit facility has a springing net first-lien
leverage covenant of 6.18x, which was not tested as of June 30, 2019. The covenant triggers if the revolving line is
drawn by more than 30%, and we expect Phoenix to maintain its leverage below the 6.18x limit over the next 12
months.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• We rate the company's $65 million revolving credit facility and $465 million term loan 'B' (in line with the issuer
credit rating), with a '3' recovery rating. The '3' recovery rating reflects our view that creditors would experience
meaningful (50%-70%; rounded estimate: 65%) recovery in a payment default.
• We assessed recovery prospects for lenders on the basis of a reorganization value of about $380 million, reflecting
an emergence EBITDA of $69 million and a 5.5x multiple.
• The $69 million emergence EBITDA incorporates recovery assumptions for minimum capital expenditures (at 5% of
sales) based on our view that Phoenix Services requires greater capital spending, as a percent of sales, than other
companies in the metals and mining downstream sector. We also incorporate our standard 15% cyclicality

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 7

Phoenix Services International LLC

adjustment for issuers in the metals and mining downstream sector.
• The 5.5x multiple is in line with the multiples we assign to other companies in the metals and mining downstream
sector.

Simulated default assumptions
Our default scenario contemplates that global steel markets will face a prolonged period of depressed prices and
demand, which leads to Phoenix's customers shutting down its steel sites. At the same time, the loss of some key
contracts to Phoenix's primary competitors could severely affect earnings. In these scenarios, Phoenix would be
unable to finance its fixed charges with free cash flow, precipitating a payment default, debt restructuring, or
bankruptcy filing.
• Simulated year of default: 2022
• EBITDA at emergence: $69 million
• Implied enterprise value multiple: 5.5x
• Gross enterprise value: $380 million

Simplified waterfall
• Net enterprise value after 5% administrative costs: $361 million
• Obligors (U.S. operations)/non-obligors (foreign operations) valuation split: 45%/55%
• Total value available to secured debt holders: $361 million
• Estimated first-lien debt claim: $522 million
• Recovery rating: '3'
• --Recovery expectation: 50%-70% (rounded estimate: 65%)

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B/Stable/--

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: Low
• Industry risk: Moderately high
• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: b
Modifiers

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 8

Phoenix Services International LLC

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral
• Capital structure: Neutral
• Financial policy: FS-6 (no additional impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate
• Management and governance: Fair
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral
Stand-alone credit profile : b

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Methodology For Linking Long-Term And Short-Term Ratings, April 7, 2017
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - General: The Treatment Of Non-Common Equity Financing In Nonfinancial Corporate
Entities, April 29, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Metals And Mining Downstream Industry, Dec. 20,
2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Business Risk Profile
Excellent
Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 9

Phoenix Services International LLC

Ratings Detail (As Of September 13, 2019)*
Phoenix Services International LLC
Issuer Credit Rating

B/Stable/--

Senior Secured

B

Issuer Credit Ratings History
22-Jan-2018

B/Stable/--

11-Dec-2017

B/Watch Neg/--

28-Nov-2017

B/Stable/--

28-Jul-2017

B/Negative/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 10

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2019 11

