KSPC Holdings Inc.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Jeff J Guan, CFA, Toronto (1) 416-507-3287; jeff.guan@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
David A Kaplan, CFA, New York (1) 212-438-5649; david.a.kaplan@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings--Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 21, 2019 1

KSPC Holdings Inc.
Business Risk: VULNERABLE

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b-

b-

b-

B-/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key Strengths

Key Risks

Largest player in the perfusion and intraoperative
neuro-physiologic monitoring (IONM) markets

Small scale in a niche market

Benefitting from the trend that overall cardiac procedures are
on the rise

High debt leverage with financial sponsor ownership

Good geographic and customer diversification

Dynamic reimbursement environment, including surprise billing and shift to
episodic payments (that may reduce procedure volumes at smaller--hospital
customers.

Good market position (market share) relative to other
outsourced-providers in its niche

Potential for hospital insourcing and advancements in technology that may
reduce demand for KSPC's services

Financial sponsor ownership and aggressive financial policy will keep leverage high.
We expect adjusted debt leverage will remain above 5x over the next two years largely as a result of the financial
policies of the private equity owner. We expect the financial sponsor will direct free cash flow for acquisitions or
shareholder returns.

The small scale and very narrow focus in a niche market exacerbate risks. .
We view the company's focus on these narrow areas as potentially exacerbating risks from changes to reimbursement
(such as a potential shift to bundled payments, or surprise out-of-network billing), or technological developments (such
as improvements in statins, stents, and transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) procedure volumes that could
reduce demand for open-heart surgery).

The company has a relatively strong market positon as the largest outsourced provider in each of its
two niches.
We believe the company has certain competitive advantages as the largest outsourced service provider in the
perfusion and IONM markets, namely in hiring and retaining talent (especially in the tight perfusion labor market) and
in marketing. Most of the company's competitors are significantly smaller, though about half of these services are
provided by in-house employees at hospitals, particularly larger hospitals that have sufficient demand to employ

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 21, 2019 2

KSPC Holdings Inc.

multiple full-time providers. The company has built a strong reputation with employees and hospital customers and
provides strong outcomes through a focus on identifying and sharing best practices and other forms of training and
professional development.

Outlook

Our stable rating outlook reflects our expectation that the company will gradually grow EBITDA and free cash flow
supported by its market position in the perfusion and IONM markets, while generally maintaining adjusted debt
leverage above 5x for the next few years under financial sponsor ownership.

Downside scenario
We could lower the rating if KSPC experiences unfavorable industry trends in the perfusion or IONM markets, such
as a decline in surgery volumes in the hospitals that the company serves. Another key risk is intensifying
competition from hospital insourcing or from other large providers of outsourced clinical service companies. This
scenario would entail margin contraction of about 200 basis points resulting in negligible free cash flow and high
leverage that would lead us to view the capital structure as unsustainable.

Upside scenario
We could consider raising the rating if we expected KSPC to sustainably generate more than $20 million of annual
free cash flow. We expect the company could achieve this within a couple of years, providing it maintains adjusted
debt leverage near recent levels.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 21, 2019 3

KSPC Holdings Inc.

Assumptions

We expect organic revenue growth of around 5% in
2019 and again in 2020, broadly in line with the
expected growth in the perfusion market and helped by
cross-selling initiatives and new account wins. For the
first half of 2019, 40%-45% of new business wins were
from cross-selling.

Key Metrics

2018A 2019E 2020E
Adjusted EDBITA margin (%)

16.6

17-18

18

Adjusted debt to EDBITA (x)

6.3

5.7

5.2

Adjusted FFO to debt (x)

9.6

9.9

11.3

A--Actual. E—Estimate. FFO—Funds from operations.

Around $10 million-$15 million on acquisitions per
year.
Adjusted EBITDA margins, including the impact of
integration costs and synergies, estimated to be
17%-19% for 2019 and 2020.
Based on these assumptions, we expect adjusted
leverage could decline to the low-5x area by December
2020, and the company could generate around $20
million of free cash flow in 2020. Given the financial
sponsor ownership, we expect the company to increase
leverage to support shareholder returns or more
significant mergers and acquisitions (M&A).

Base-case projections
Moderate revenue growth supported by the outsourcing trend and new account wins.
We expect low- to mid-single-digit revenue growth as the company benefits from favorable demographic trends
supporting the growing number of procedures, hospital outsourcing trends, and new account wins, helped by
cross-selling in the company's segments.

Slight widening of adjusted EBITDA margins in 2019 and 2020 as the company stabilizes expenses.
The company increased spending on its sales force by hiring more people in 2018 to help drive revenue growth. We
expect sales, general, and administrative expenses to remain relatively flat in 2019 and 2020, supporting modest
EBITDA margin expansion.

Free cash flow primarily allocated to shareholder returns or acquisitions.
We expect adjusted free cash flow of around $20 million in 2019 and in 2020. Given financial sponsor ownership, we
expect the company will direct free cash flow to shareholder returns or for acquisitions to grow the business.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 21, 2019 4

KSPC Holdings Inc.

Company Description
KSPC (d/b/a SpecialtyCare) is a national provider of outsourced clinical services to hospitals and health systems. The
company operates in three segments:
Perfusion (the largest segment, based on revenue): Perfusionists are highly specialized professionals who operate the
heart-lung machine, an essential role, during open heart surgery procedures. KSPC is the largest provider of
outsourced perfusion services in the U.S., with low-double-digit market share.
IONM (Intraoperative neuromonitoring, the second largest segment): IONM serves to minimize neurological-related
injuries primarily during spinal operations by monitoring changes in brain, spinal cord, and peripheral nerve function
prior to irreversible damage. An IONM clinician team typically consists of a neurophysiologist performing IONM for
surgeons on site, and a neurologist monitoring the patient's central and peripheral nervous system remotely. It is
becoming more common, particularly during complex spine surgeries. KSPC is the largest provider of IONM
outsourced services in the U.S., with low-double-digit market share.
Surgical services: KSPC provides outsourced surgical services to hospitals in the areas of minimally invasive surgical
support, surgical assistance, autotransfusion, and sterile processing management.

Business Risk: Vulnerable
Our view on the ratings for KSPC reflect the company's small scale (about $330 million in annual revenues), its narrow
focus on the niche perfusion and IONM markets, and a competitive and fragmented market for outsourced health care
staffing services. While we believe that KSPC's expertise and strong market position in perfusion and IONM markets
provide certain competitive advantages, the company also competes with hospitals that in-source such services as
about half of the perfusion and IONM markets are outsourced. The company is also facing potential competition from
advanced technology that may replace part of the services from KSPC. We believe further technological developments
in drug-eluting stents, more effective statins, and the growing track record of success with the minimally invasive
TAVR procedure could lead to declines in the open heart surgery procedure volumes. For instance, in August 2019,
both Edwards Lifesciences Corp. and Medtronic Plc received FDA approval for expanded use of their respective TAVR
products in the lower-risk population. We expect this could further support a gradual shift from open heart surgery
toward TAVR, as surgeons gain more confidence in the minimally invasive technology.
We also believe KSPC is exposed to the risk of a potential shift in the volume of procedures away from hospitals with
relatively few open heart procedures (where the outsourcing of perfusion services is economically essential), should
the industry shift toward episodic payments for coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG), which rewards facilities based
on outcomes. This is because outcomes tend to be better at higher volume (center of excellence) facilities. Lastly,
while we recognize the substantial benefits that IONM brings to complex surgeries, the growing adoption rate of this
technique may be tempered by the discretionary nature of IONM and the inability of hospitals to pass through the
incremental costs of IONM to patients covered under Medicare. We believe pressure on hospital profitability or
general economic softness could weigh on contracting rates for outsourced perfusionists and IONM professionals.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 21, 2019 5

KSPC Holdings Inc.

The business risk also reflects KSPC's leading position in the outsourced perfusion and IONM markets, with good
geographic and customer diversification (the top 10 customers account for only around 12% of revenues). We view the
company's limited exposure to reimbursement risk as positive, with 80%-82% of revenues coming from hospitals and
only 17% from third-party payors. We expect the company to have limited impact from surprise billing, given that
exposure is limited to the 75% of the 17% third-party payors that are out of network. Lastly, we believe that KSPC
benefits from the general trend toward outsourcing by hospitals.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
We expect KSPC's adjusted leverage to decline to the low-5x area and funds from operations (FFO) to debt to get
close to 10%-11% over the next two years absent major debt-financed acquisition or dividend recap. Our base case
contemplate modest deleveraging stemming from revenue growth. We expect the company to generate about $20
million in annual free cash flows in 2019 and again 2020, though we expect cash flows to be allocated for shareholder
returns or more material investment in M&A. .

Liquidity: Adequate
We view the company's liquidity as adequate. Although we expect sources of cash to cover uses by more than 1.2x, we
believe the company may not be able to absorb a high-impact, low-probability event without refinancing.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Full availability under the $45 million revolver, even
given the springing covenant;

• Mandatory debt amortization of about $3 million
each year;

• Projected annual FFO of $34 million in 2019 and
$38 million in 2020; and

• Modest working capital usage of around $2 million
each year; and

• About $8 million of cash and cash equivalents as of
March 31, 2019.

• Capital spending of around $10 million-$15 million
per year.

Debt maturities
The company's revolver is due in 2022, the first lien term loan is due in 2023, and the second-lien term loan is due in
2024.

Covenant Analysis
Compliance expectations
We expect the company to maintain at least a 30% cushion on the springing secured leverage covenant of 9x.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 21, 2019 6

KSPC Holdings Inc.

Requirements
The revolver is subject only to a springing secured leverage covenant that activates when the revolver is 35% drawn.
There are no financial covenants on the first-lien term loan or the second-lien term loan.

Issue Ratings--Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• KSPC's capital structure consists of a $45 million first-lien revolver, a $256 million first-lien term loan, and an $81
million second-lien term loan.
• The obligations under the credit agreement are secured by all material assets of the borrowers and the guarantors.
• We assume the revolver will be 85% drawn, LIBOR of 250 basis points (bps), and 150-bp margin increase, at default,
following a covenant breach.
• Given the company's market-leading position in the geographic regions in which it operates and the continued
demand for its services, we believe the company would remain a viable business and would therefore reorganize
rather than liquidate following a payment default.
• We valued the company on a going-concern basis using a 5.0x multiple of our projected emergence EBITDA.
• We estimate that, for the company to default in 2021, EBITDA would need to decline by about 20%-25%.

Simulated default assumptions
• Simulated year of default: 2021
• EBITDA at emergence: $38 million
• EBITDA multiple: 5.0x

Simplified waterfall
• Net emergence value (after 5% administrative costs): $179 million
• Valuation split in % (obligors/nonobligors): 100/0
• Collateral value available to first-lien lenders: $179 million
• First-lien debt: $296 million
• --Recovery expectations: 50%-70%; rounded estimate: 60%
• Second-lien debt: $85 million
• --Recovery expectations: 0%-10%; rounded estimate: 0%

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B-/Stable/--

Business risk: Vulnerable

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 21, 2019 7

KSPC Holdings Inc.

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Vulnerable
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: bModifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: FS-6 (no additional impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)
Stand-alone credit profile : b-

• Group credit profile: b-

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Methodology For Linking Long-Term And Short-Term Ratings, April 7, 2017
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Business And Consumer Services Industry, Nov. 19,
2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 21, 2019 8

KSPC Holdings Inc.

Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Business Risk Profile
Excellent
Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Ratings Detail (As Of August 21, 2019)*
KSPC Holdings, Inc.
Issuer Credit Rating

B-/Stable/--

Issuer Credit Ratings History
10-Aug-2017

B-/Stable/--

Related Entities
SCSG EA Acquisition Company Inc.
Senior Secured

B-

Senior Secured

CCC

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 21, 2019 9

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 21, 2019 10

