Los Angeles Harbor Dept., California;
Ports/Port Authorities
Primary Credit Analyst:
Kevin R Archer, San Francisco + 1 (415) 371 5031; Kevin.Archer@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Kurt E Forsgren, Boston (1) 617-530-8308; kurt.forsgren@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Rationale
Outlook
Enterprise Risk
Financial Risk

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 1

Los Angeles Harbor Dept., California; Ports/Port
Authorities
Credit Profile
US$115.285 mil rfdg rev bnds (amt) ser 2019A due 08/01/2026
Long Term Rating

AA/Stable

New

US$32.915 mil rfdg rev bnds (non-amt) ser 2019B due 08/01/2029
Long Term Rating

AA/Stable

New

US$10.855 mil rfdg rev bnds (non-amt) ser 2019C-2 due 08/01/2026
Long Term Rating

AA/Stable

New

US$5.655 mil rfdg rev bnds (amt) ser 2019C-1 due 08/01/2021
Long Term Rating

AA/Stable

New

AA/Stable

Affirmed

Los Angeles (Los Angeles Harbor Dept)
Long Term Rating

Rationale
S&P Global Ratings assigned its 'AA' long-term rating to the Los Angeles Harbor Dept., Calif.'s (the Port of Los
Angeles, or the port) pro forma $164.7 million refunding revenue bonds, series 2019. Additionally, S&P Global Ratings
affirmed its 'AA' long-term rating and underlying rating (SPUR) on the port's parity debt outstanding using our U.S.
And Canadian Not-For-Profit Transportation Infrastructure Enterprises criteria. The outlook is stable.
The ratings reflect our opinion of the port's extremely strong enterprise risk profile and very strong financial risk
profile. The enterprise risk profile reflects the port's size and essentiality to the national and regional economy, as well
as the strength of its service area with capacity for growth combined with a capable, experienced management team.
The financial risk profile reflects the port's S&P Global Ratings-calculated debt service coverage (DSC) that we expect
to be no less than 2x and a liquidity position likely to stay above 800 days' operating funds on hand due in part to a
formal, board-adopted debt and reserve policies. These strengths are further supported by minimum annual guarantees
(MAGs) payments made by shipping line tenants under long-term lease agreements with the port that exceed the
port's annual debt service payments, as well as a lack of additional debt needs through 2024.
The extremely strong enterprise risk profile reflects our view of the port's:
• Extremely strong market position given the port's size and essentiality to the national economy, offset by the
modest fluctuations in demand due to economic cyclicality;
• Extremely strong service area economic fundamentals, which include a large population base and a high GDP;
• Low industry risk relative to those of other industries and sectors; and
• Extremely strong management and governance, with an experienced management team that is enforcing prudent
financial policies.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 2

Los Angeles Harbor Dept., California; Ports/Port Authorities

The very strong financial risk profile reflects our view of the port's:
• Strong financial performance, evidenced by consistently sound DSC (S&P Global Ratings-calculated) that we expect
will remain above 2x, a level we consider strong;
• Very strong debt and liabilities capacity, especially given the lack of additional debt needs through 2024; and
• Very strong liquidity and financial flexibility, reflecting our expectation that the port will continue to maintain
liquidity levels well above one year's unrestricted cash, as required by its reserve and target balance policy.
After refunding, the Port of Los Angeles will have approximately $763.6 million of bonds (all fixed rate), and no
commercial paper draws outstanding. The bonds are secured by a senior lien on port net revenue. The port operates
as a landlord port, whereby port tenants perform all cargo-handling activities at the port and pay the department tariff
charges pursuant to long-term lease agreements. The port is under the control of a five-member Board of Harbor
Commissioners, which is appointed by the mayor and approved by the City Council, and is administered by an
executive director. All money arising from port operations is limited to use for the operation and maintenance of port
facilities, the acquisition and construction of improvements, and other such trust considerations under the state of
California Tidelands Trust Act and the Charter of the City of Los Angeles.
The port is the leading seaport in North America in terms of shipping container volume. Following a flat figure in fiscal
2018 (down 0.4% from the prior year), container volumes at the port increased materially in fiscal 2019 (up 5.6% on a
year-over-year basis), resulting in the highest cargo volumes in the port's history. Although we believe that the port has
generally maintained excellent financial performance and relatively high activity levels through a range of economic
conditions, we believe the port's financial position is exposed to factors outside of the port's control, such as service
decisions by shipping lines, retailers, and other large importers, as well as competitive pressures from different ports
and transportation services. In particular, the effect of Trump Administration tariffs (and Chinese trade negotiations)
on the port's future volumes remains uncertain, in our opinion, especially as China is the port's largest trading partner,
responsible for 61% of import container volume and 28% of export container volume.

Outlook
The stable outlook reflects our view that the Port of Los Angeles will maintain its status as the leading container port in
the U.S. with continued strong financial performance, characterized by DSC exceeding 2.0x and over two years' cash
on hand.

Upside scenario
We could raise the ratings over the next two years if the port's operating margins continue at steady and sustainable
levels, debt levels remain low, and current trade tensions are favorably resolved.

Downside scenario
We could lower the ratings if the port experiences a significant decrease in container traffic volumes reflecting a
weakened competitive position, or a significant decline in revenue leading to coverage below 1.25x.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 3

Los Angeles Harbor Dept., California; Ports/Port Authorities

Enterprise Risk
Our assessment of the port's enterprise risk profile as extremely strong reflects its extremely strong economic
fundamentals, low industry risk, extremely strong market position, and extremely strong management and governance.
The service area has extremely strong economic fundamentals due to the strength and size of the Southern California
service area, which represents the largest primary market in the U.S. The Los Angeles metropolitan statistical area
(MSA) has a large population base and high GDP levels. In addition, we view the port to be of statewide and national
significance. More than 23 million people constitute the huge consumer market of the five counties in and around Los
Angeles and make up more than 51% of California's total population. The significant demand of the Southern
California market translates into approximately one-third of all containers imported to the port remaining in the
five-county area. The export market from Southern California, while smaller than that of imports, also helps to fill
vessels for the return trip. The local MSA has an unemployment rate near the national average and positive population
growth at about 1%.
We consider the port overall market position extremely strong, given the port's size and essentiality to the national
economy, with strong long-term growth trends offset by the modest fluctuations in demand due to economic
cyclicality. Combined with the neighboring Port of Long Beach, the San Pedro Bay is the ninth-largest seaport complex
in the world. A nine-mile breakwater shelters the port and encloses the largest manmade harbor in the western
hemisphere. The port is already able to handle vessels larger than those that are able to transit the Panama Canal (after
the latter's recent expansion). The port's primary business is container cargo, with revenue derived from container
shipping representing approximately 71% of total operating revenue in fiscal year 2019. Other cargo types handled at
the port include dry and liquid bulk cargo.
According to the 2016 long-term unconstrained cargo forecast for the San Pedro Bay, containers that move directly by
rail to reach their final destinations (about 38% of loaded imports) are considered to be most at risk for diversion to
other ports, as there are other gateway ports along the Pacific Coast that are positioned to handle these volumes, and
the increased availability of services between Asia and East/Gulf Coast ports enables all-water routings to be viable
alternatives for the lower-value, less time-sensitive commodities moving to a number of inland destinations east of the
Mississippi River Valley. However, the forecast indicates that diversions to other ports are expected to be relatively
limited over the near term.
The medium- to long-term impact of U.S.-China trade tariffs is uncertain. China is the port's top trading partner,
responsible for a relatively sizable 61% of imports (% of total 20-foot equivalent units [TEUs]) and 28% of export TEUs,
according to the port. Although recent tariffs imposed by the Trump Administration tariffs have not had a negative
impact on port volumes to date, the potential for further imposition of tariffs in 2019 and possibly beyond is a credit
risk.
The port has the capability to move goods rapidly by road or rail with its network of transportation systems. The port
benefits from good surface transportation connections, which facilitate the distribution of local and discretionary cargo.
Two major rail lines--BNSF Railway Co. and Union Pacific Railroad Co.--serve the port. Rail connections were, in our

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 4

Los Angeles Harbor Dept., California; Ports/Port Authorities

view, enhanced by the opening of the Alameda Corridor in 2002. The Alameda Corridor is a 20-mile-long multiple
track rail system overseen by the Alameda Corridor Transportation Authority that links the ports of Long Beach and
Los Angeles with the central rail yards near downtown Los Angeles. These rail yards link the main lines with the
central and southern transcontinental routes of the railroads. The rail company also has use of the Intermodal
Container Transfer Facility (ICTF), which is operated by Union Pacific and owned by a separate joint powers authority
between the department and the Port of Long Beach. The ICTF is located about five miles from the port and allows for
the transfer of containers between trucks and railcars. Interstate 710 links the port with the interstate highway system.
Most of the port's largest facilities, or terminals, are under long-term lease agreements. These agreements provide
volume incentives as greater amounts of cargo passing through a facility generate reductions in per-TEU charges,
subject to certain minimum annual guarantees to the port. Net MAG revenue covered annual debt service at 1.2x in
fiscal 2018. Based on management's current forecast, we expect MAG coverage to exceed 0.8x through fiscal 2024.
Container volumes at the port increased materially in fiscal 2019 (up 5.6% on a year-over-year basis), which followed a
flat figure from the prior year (down 0.4%), resulting in the highest cargo volumes in the port's history in fiscal 2019 as
measured by TEUs of 9.7 million. While we attribute this growth to continued strength in the U.S. domestic consumer
economy, it can also be attributed to a variety of U.S. businesses placing orders in advance of the imposition of future
U.S. tariffs on imports from China. Container traffic has a strong long term positive trend (averaging 2.5% on a
year-over-year basis, with declines in just two out of the last 10 years. However, volumes dropped by about 16%
during the Great Recession (from 8.6 million TEUs to 7.3 million TEUs between 2007 and 2009.)
The port's managerial and governance, in our view, is extremely strong, reflecting our view of the port's strategic
positioning, risk management and financial management, and organizational effectiveness. The port is operated by the
harbor department, which is an enterprise fund of the city of Los Angeles. The port is under the control of a
five-member Board of Harbor Commissioners, which is appointed by the mayor and approved by the City Council, and
is administered by an executive director. In our view, the port benefits from an experienced management team, which
implements conservative financial policies. Management has stated that total indenture coverage will be maintained at
or above 2x, which we view as strong. The port also has an annual target to maintain at least 500 days' cash on hand.
We consider these policies and target to be a credit strength and additional indication of management's fiscal
prudence. Additionally, the port has developed a formal cyber incident response plan and as part of its management
staff has a chief information officer as well as chief information security officer. Management reports that the port is
constantly facing cyber threats but has successfully defended against them and has had not any cyber incidents
affecting its critical information systems or other infrastructure.

Financial Risk
Our assessment of the port's financial risk profile as very strong reflects the port's strong financial performance,
extremely strong debt and liabilities capacity, and extremely strong liquidity and financial flexibility. Our financial
profile risk assessment considered historical figures, which reflect management's financial projections showing that the
port will continue to operate at historical levels. We consider management's projections to be reasonable, as TEU
growth is forecast at 3% average annual growth rate between 2021 and 2024. Our financial profile assessment also

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 5

Los Angeles Harbor Dept., California; Ports/Port Authorities

considered the port's financial policies, which we consider credit neutral.
The strong financial performance assessment reflects DSC (S&P Global Ratings-calculated) that we expect will remain
at a level we consider strong. Net revenue provided coverage of debt service above 2.5x in from fiscal year 2014 to
2018, and DSC (S&P Global Ratings-calculated) in unaudited fiscal 2019 above 3x. Operating revenue trends have
roughly tracked cargo traffic, with unaudited fiscal year 2019 operating revenue totaling $506.4 million, up 3% from
$490.7 million in fiscal year 2018. Management expects total indenture DSC will remain at least 2x, as required by a
debt policy that the Board of Harbor Commissioners adopted in July 2019. In our view, coverage of this level is
achievable, though any future downturn in container traffic would likely weigh on financial metrics. Furthermore, given
the port's historically robust DSC and the ongoing uncertainty with U.S.-China trade relations, the port could withstand
a roughly 30% decline in fiscal 2018 and unaudited fiscal 2019 revenue and still maintain DSC at or above 1.25x and
within a range we would consider strong.
We understand that the port does not have plans to issue additional debt over the upcoming five-year period. We
assessed the port's debt and liabilities capacity as extremely strong. Debt to net revenue has remained stable over the
past four years below 4.5x. We believe this metric will continue to improve as outstanding debt amortizes over time.
We assessed the port's liquidity and financial flexibility as very strong, reflecting our expectation that that the port will
continue to maintain healthy liquidity levels well above the minimums outlined in the port's financial policies.
Unrestricted cash totaled $822 million as of unaudited fiscal year-end 2019, representing about 1,079 days of operating
expenses on hand. In addition, the port maintains access to a revolving line of credit currently sized at $150 million
with no revolving obligations currently outstanding. Although we consider the port's cash position to be very strong,
this metric could weaken depending on the timing and size of the capital improvement plan. However, we do not
expect cash levels to fall below an 800-day minimum.
In our view, bond provisions are credit neutral and standard for the sector. The port has covenanted to collect net
pledged revenue sufficient to provide at least 125% of its debt service, and to apply what we consider a very strong
historical 1.25x additional bonds test (ABT). The ABT states that net revenue for any consecutive 12 months of the 18
months preceding the authorization of additional parity obligations will be equal to at least 125% debt service, and that
net revenue for any consecutive 12 months of the 18 months preceding authorization of additional parity obligations,
adjusting for any rate increases or decreases approved during that period, will produce a sum at least equal to 125% of
annual debt service, including the new indebtedness.
Ratings Detail (As Of August 15, 2019)
Los Angeles Harbor Dept rev bnds ser 1995 A&B dtd 01/01/1995 due 08/01/2025
Long Term Rating

AA/Stable

Affirmed

Los Angeles Harbor Dept rev bnds ser 2009A&B dtd 07/09/2009 ser 2009A due 08/01/2010-2029 ser 2009B due 08/01/2034
2039
Long Term Rating

AA/Stable

Affirmed

AA/Stable

Affirmed

AA/Stable

Affirmed

Los Angeles Harbor Dept PORTS
Long Term Rating
Los Angeles Harbor Dept PORTS
Long Term Rating

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 6

Los Angeles Harbor Dept., California; Ports/Port Authorities

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 7

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 15, 2019 8

