Certara Holdco Inc.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Viral Patel, New York +1 212-438-2403; viral.patel@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
David A Kaplan, CFA, New York (1) 212-438-5649; david.a.kaplan@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 1

Certara Holdco Inc.
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b

b

b

B/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key Strengths

Key Risks

Leading market position in the emerging biosimulation industry.

Small scale and niche focus in the biosimulation and regulatory software
and services industries.

Significant penetration in the pharmaceutical industry with multi-year
contracts and cross-selling opportunities.

Risk of potential competition from much larger and better-funded
outsourced pharmaceutical development firms.

Upfront subscription payments give strong revenue visibility and the
ability to manage operating cash flows.

Adjusted leverage more than 6.5x as of June 30, 2019.

We expect Certara's leading position in the nascent biosimulation industry to grow rapidly given its penetration within
the pharmaceutical industry. The company's software is primarily used for model-informed drug development (MIDD),
data informatics, and strategic consulting services. More than 90% of all novel drugs approved by the U.S. FDA used
Certara's software platform. Additionally, with the U.S. FDA looking to move aggressively toward an electronic
regulatory submission, the agency renewed and increased its contract for Certara's software.
Certara has a strong ability to manage cash flows with high visibility to revenue streams. The company benefits from
the highly predictable subscription-based revenue stream and strong renewal rates. Certara's multi-year contracts
remain sticky among customers, including the U.S. FDA, and the company collects subscription revenues upfront,
which provides the company efficiency in working capital.
We view the company's small scale and niche focus in the biosimulation and regulatory science software services
industry as potential risk. Certara could face competition from other Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) companies or
much-larger and better-funded outsourced pharmaceutical development firms, such as contract research organizations
(CROs), especially as technology evolves. The company's leading position in this niche partially offsets this risk.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 2

Certara Holdco Inc.

Outlook: Stable

S&P Global Ratings' stable outlook on Certara Holdco Inc. reflects its expectation that revenue and EBITDA will
continue to expand rapidly, given the company's leading, albeit niche, position in the growing industry, enabling it
to generate moderate discretionary cash flows. Although we expect the company to deleverage over the next 12
months, we believe leverage will remain above 6.0x and funds from operations (FFO) to debt will be below 10%.

Downside scenario
We could lower the rating if competitive threats result in an unexpected shortfall in contract renewals or if contract
price pressure leads to significant margin contraction. This could result in revenues well below our base-case
scenario and EBITDA margins decreasing by more than 100 basis points (bps), leading to marginal free cash flow
generation and FFO coverage of cash interest deteriorating to below 1.5x. Alternatively, a change in our perception
of Certara's business and competitive position could also lead to a lower rating.

Upside scenario
We expect the company to deleverage as a result of EBITDA expansion over the next 12 months, but we think an
upgrade is unlikely given the company's financial sponsor ownership, which we expect to favor business growth
over debt reduction. Also, while Certara holds a leading market position, the niche and still evolving nature of the
market limit ratings upside.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 3

Certara Holdco Inc.

Assumptions

• We expect low-double-digit percentage revenue
growth due to penetration of its services to midsize
and small pharmaceutical companies, cross-selling
of services to existing customers, and the launch of
new services. We expect revenue growth to be
supplemented with modest acquisitions. This growth
is higher than the low-single-digit growth expected
for the pharmaceutical industry.

Key Metrics

2018A 2019E 2020E
Adj. debt/EBITDA (x)

8.4

6.5-7

5.5-6

Adj. EBITDA margin (%)

31

31-33

31-33

FFO to debt (%)

4.5

7-9

8-10

All figures are S&P Global Ratings-adjusted. A--Actual.
E--Estimate. FFO--Funds from operations.

• EBITDA margins of around 32% for fiscal-year-end
2019 improving around 100 bps in 2020 due to
operating leverage and better pricing. This is
supported by the company's value proposition of
offering multiple services on its integrated platform.
• Low capital requirements, with capital spending of
around $5 million-$10 million per year, net of our
adjustment for capitalized software development
costs.

Company Description
Certara provides decision support technology and consulting services for optimizing drug development and improving
health outcomes. The company provides regulatory strategy, MIDD services and technology, and regulatory writing
and submission services. The company's drug development platform leverages a relatively comprehensive database of
prior drug trials to extrapolate the safety profile and likelihood of success for a given target. Its portfolio spans the
discovery, preclinical, clinical, and post-marketing phases of drug development, working with 1,200 commercial
companies, 250 academic institutions, and numerous regulatory agencies around the world.

Business Risk: Weak
Our assessment of Certara's business risk reflects the company's limited scale and niche focus in the biosimulation and
regulatory software and services industries. We consider the risk of potential competition from much larger companies
such as CROs as a constraint on our assessment. These factors are partially mitigated by Certara's leading market
position in the nascent biosimulation industry, which we expect to grow rapidly over the next two years. The rating
also reflects our expectation for above-average EBITDA margins and double-digit revenue growth.
Despite this strong market penetration and leading market share, Certara's operations remain very small in scale,
reflecting the limited size of the current addressable market. Biosimulation represents just a small fraction of current
research and development (R&D) spending, but we expect the industry as a whole will continue to grow rapidly.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 4

Certara Holdco Inc.

Certara's regulatory offerings are supported by its strong regulatory relationships, particularly with the U.S. DA. We
believe barriers to entry are stronger in this segment, given that Certara is the only review platform the FDA uses.
Certara has good revenue visibility, thanks to multiyear contracts on its licenses that are billed annually. The company
has high renewal rates--greater than 90%--for most of its software solutions and products. Furthermore, customer
concentration is limited, with no single customer accounting for more than 10% of total revenues.
Certara provides software and services for a very niche part of the drug development process, which makes it
vulnerable to changes in that marketplace. Even though Certara has established relationships with most of the
pharmaceutical and CRO industries and a wealth of collected data, the market has few barriers to entry that would
prevent a larger competitor from entering and offering a better or more complete solution to its customers. Given
Certara's EBITDA margins (at more than 30%) and the rapid growth of the underlying biosimulation industry, we
consider potential competitive pressure from significantly larger peers to be the greatest risk to Certara's business.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
Despite rapid EBITDA expansion, we expect leverage to remain high. We forecast adjusted leverage will be about 6.5x
at fiscal-year-end 2019 and remain above 5.0x through 2020. We expect moderate cash flow generation of more than
$20 million per year, supported by Certara's advanced receipt of subscription payments and minimal capital
expenditures. We expect Certara to deploy this cash flow for accretive transactions on an opportunistic basis as well as
some deleveraging over the coming year.

Liquidity: Adequate
We assess liquidity as adequate, limited by our view that the company may not be able to absorb a high-impact, low
probability event without the need for refinancing and that the company's access to credit markets may be limited due
to its high leverage. However, we expect sources of cash will exceed uses by more than 2x. We expect the company to
have full availability on its revolving credit facility over the next 12 months. The company has a net first-lien leverage
covenant that applies to the revolver only and is tested if borrowings exceed 35% of the commitment. We expect the
company's cushion against its net first-lien covenant will be greater than 30%.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Cash balance of about $15 million as of June 30,
2019;

• Mandatory debt amortization of about $3 million per
year; and

• Cash FFO of about $30 million over the next 12
months; and

• Capital expenditures of about $10 million over the
next 12 months, including capitalized software
development costs.

• About $19 million available under the $20 million
revolving credit facility as of June 30, 2019.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 5

Certara Holdco Inc.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• Certara's capital structure consists of a $20 million floating-rate revolver due 2022, a $315 million first-lien term loan
due 2024, and a $100 million second-lien term loan due 2025.
• Given the continued demand for its services, we believe Certara would remain a viable business and would
therefore reorganize rather than liquidate following a hypothetical payment default.
• Consequently, we have used an enterprise value methodology to evaluate recovery prospects. We valued the
company on a going-concern basis using a 5.5x multiple off our projected EBITDA at default.
• We estimate EBITDA would need to decline to about $34 million for Certara to default, which would be a significant
deterioration from our base-case forecast.

Simulated default assumptions
• Simulated year of default: 2021
• EBITDA at emergence: $34 million
• EBITDA multiple: 5.5x

Simplified waterfall
• Net enterprise value (after 5% admin. costs): $178 million
• Valuation split (obligors/nonobligors): 75%/25%
• Collateral value available to secured creditors: $161 million
• Secured first-lien debt: $329 million
• --Recovery expectations: 50%-70%; rounded estimate: 50%
Notes: All debt amounts include six months' prepetition interest

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B/Stable/--

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 6

Certara Holdco Inc.

Anchor: b
Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: FS-6 (no additional impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, July 1, 2019
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, April 1, 2019
• General Criteria: Methodology For Linking Long-Term And Short-Term Ratings, April 7, 2017
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate
Issuers, Dec. 16, 2014
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Business And Consumer Services Industry, Nov. 19,
2013
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Technology Software And Services Industry, Nov. 19,
2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 7

Certara Holdco Inc.

Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Business Risk Profile
Excellent
Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

Ratings Detail (As Of September 10, 2019)*
Certara Holdco, Inc.
Issuer Credit Rating

B/Stable/--

Senior Secured

B

Issuer Credit Ratings History
26-Jul-2017

B/Stable/--

Related Entities
Certara USA, Inc.
Senior Secured

B

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 8

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 9

