J.B. Poindexter & Co. Inc.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Gilad Kopelman, New York + 1 (212) 438 1160; gilad.kopelman@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Trevor T Martin, CFA, New York (1) 212-438-7286; trevor.martin@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 1

J.B. Poindexter & Co. Inc.
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

bb-

bb-

bbBB-/Stable/--

Financial Risk: SIGNIFICANT
Highly leveraged

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key strengths

Key risks

Its scale enables it to source raw materials at attractive prices.

Exposed to the highly cyclical commercial trucking end market.

Demonstrated increased pricing power across its major divisions.

High customer concentrations.

Reading division back on track following 2017 recall. In 2017, the company recalled certain products because its
customers were experiencing issues operating their vehicles' taillights. This temporarily reduced Poindexter's
profitability and led to a large warranty charge. However, we believe management has successfully addressed the
underlying issues following the changes it made to the division's management team and its implementation of stricter
business controls as it navigated significant productivity improvements. These initiatives have led the division to return
to profitability while expanding its organic sales.
The company's exposure to cyclical end markets may lead to stretched credit metrics in a potential downturn.
Poindexter maintains heavy exposure to the highly cyclical commercial transportation end markets. Given the
especially high customer and supplier concentrations in its main business lines, a downturn may stress its credit
metrics to the point that we would lower our ratings.
Poindexter has weathered trade tensions well so far. Despite tariffs on its main raw material inputs, steel and
aluminum, the company has managed to steadily raise its profitability by increasing pricing at its largest divisions.
Also, Poindexter continues to take advantage of the combined purchasing power of all of its business units to
efficiently source its raw materials.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 2

J.B. Poindexter & Co. Inc.

Outlook: Stable

S&P Global Ratings' stable outlook on J.B. Poindexter & Co. Inc. reflects our expectation that the company will
maintain an adjusted funds from operations (FFO)-to-debt ratio of approximately 20%-30% over the next 12
months.

Downside scenario
We could lower our ratings on Poindexter if the company's operating performance falls short of our expectations,
either because of a cyclical downturn or operational inefficiencies. For example, we could downgrade the company
if we forecast that its EBITDA will weaken significantly because of an inability to maintain the improved margins in
its truck body and step van segments amid lower demand conditions, causing its adjusted FFO-to-debt ratio to fall
below 20% for a sustained period with no clear prospects for recovery. We could also lower our ratings if the
recent recall event leads to a greater-than-expected warranty expense.

Upside scenario
Although unlikely during the next 12 months, we could upgrade Poindexter if it establishes a track record of strong
and consistent margin performance across its key segments, successfully implements its external growth strategies,
and commits to maintaining financial policies that would cause its adjusted FFO-to-debt ratio to remain above 30%
for a sustained period. We would also need to believe that management's future financial policies would continue
to support the company's improved metrics.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 3

J.B. Poindexter & Co. Inc.

Assumptions

Key Metrics

• U.S. GDP growth of 2.5% in 2019, 1.8% in 2020, and
1.9% in 2021;
Adjusted EBITDA margin

• The revenue in the company's major divisions
increases organically by the double digit percent
area because of deeper product penetration in 2019
before expanding organically by the high single digit
percent area thereafter;

Debt to EBITDA
FFO to debt

2018A

2019E

2020E

5.8%

9.5%-10.0%

9.5%-10.0%

5.1x

2.5x-3.0x

2.0x-2.5x

8.3% 25.0%-30.0% 30.0%-35.0%

A--Actual. E--Estimate. FFO--Funds from operations.

• EBITDA margins in the 10% area in 2019-2020 due
to increased profitability following successive
pricing increases;
• Annual capital expenditure of about $30 million-$40
million in 2019 and 2020;
• Moderate working capital outflows; and
• Minor bolt-on acquisitions.

Company Description
J.B. Poindexter manufactures van and truck bodies, truck accessories, specialty vehicles, and packaging materials in
North America. Poindexter holds fair market positions with high U.S. market shares in its transportation-related truck
body and step van businesses (which account for about three-quarters of its revenue) in addition to its truck
accessories business.

Business Risk: Weak
With over $1.5 billion in annual sales, J.B. Poindexter is a large assembler and fabricator of commercial auto parts for
the transportation industry. Its size provides it with the economies of scale to efficiently source the raw materials for all
of its divisions, which benefits its smaller segments.
However, the barriers to entry in its main lines of business are low given the assembled nature of its products, which
results in low EBITDA margins relative to those of its capital goods peers. Furthermore, the company has significant
customer concentrations as its top 10 customers accounted for nearly 40% of its revenue in 2018 revenue. These
concentrations are even higher in its largest two divisions, Morgan and Morgan Olson. The top two customers in each
of these divisions account for approximately 50% of revenue, respectively. Given the cyclical nature of the commercial
transportation space, we view these concentrations as precarious, especially ahead of a potential downturn.
Nonetheless, Poindexter maintains good brand recognition as a leading provider of commercial vehicle parts given
that it provides nearly half of all medium-duty trucks and two-thirds of all step-vans sold in the U.S.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 4

J.B. Poindexter & Co. Inc.

Financial Risk: Significant
We view J.B. Poindexter's debt load to be moderate and expect its leverage to improve toward the 3.0x area over the
next 12 months. The company's adjusted debt to EBITDA for the 12 months ended March 31, 2019, was
approximately 3.2x while its FFO-to-debt ratio was approximately 20%. We anticipate that these metrics will improve
in line with the company's overall financial performance, which we expect to strengthen due to its strong backlog,
continued integration of acquired businesses, and the one-time nature of its recent warranty charge.

Liquidity: Adequate
We assess J.B. Poindexter's liquidity as adequate. We expect the company's sources of liquidity to be more than 4x its
uses over the next 12 months and anticipate that its net sources will remain positive even if its forecast EBITDA
declines by 15%. The company also has no significant near-term debt maturities. We believe that the qualitative
factors related to Poindexter's liquidity--such as its relationship with its banks, its standing in the credit markets, its
ability to withstand adverse events with only a limited need for refinancing, and its risk management--all support our
adequate assessment.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Annual FFO of over $100 million over the next two
years;

• Manageable maintenance capital expenditure; and
• Moderate working capital outflows.

• Substantial availability under the $100 million
revolving credit facility; and
• Cash balance of about $114 million as of June 30,
2019.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• The '3' recovery rating on J.B. Poindexter's senior unsecured notes reflects our expectation for meaningful
(50%-70%; rounded estimate: 50%) recovery after satisfying unpaid priority administrative expenses, the
asset-based lending (ABL) revolving credit facility lenders, and capital lease claims.
• Our simulated default scenario assumes a default occurring in 2023 because of a prolonged cyclical downturn in
Poindexter's key markets. The combination of weak demand for the company's trucks and step vans and lower
energy prices impair its cash flow generation. Combined with the shrinking collateral values under Poindexter's ABL
revolving credit facility, this would eventually erode the company's liquidity to levels that would be insufficient to
service its obligations.
• We value the company on a going-concern basis. The gross enterprise value of $254 million is based on emergence

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 5

J.B. Poindexter & Co. Inc.

EBITDA of $51 million and a valuation multiple of 5x (in line with the multiples we use for similarly rated capital
goods companies).

Simulated default assumptions
• Simulated year of default: 2023
• Implied enterprise value multiple: 5.0x
• EBITDA at emergence: $51 million
• Jurisdiction: U.S.

Simplified waterfall
• Net enterprise value at default (after 5% administrative costs): $254 million
• ABL lender claims: $52 million
• --Recovery expectations: Not applicable
• Total value available to unsecured claims: $190 million
• Senior unsecured debt and pari passu claims: $363 million
• --Recovery expectations: 50-70% (rounded estimate: 50%)

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
BB-/Stable/--

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Significant

• Cash flow/Leverage: Significant
Anchor: bbModifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: Neutral (no impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 6

J.B. Poindexter & Co. Inc.

Related Criteria
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Capital Goods Industry, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Business Risk Profile

Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly leveraged

Excellent

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

Ratings Detail (As Of August 22, 2019)*
J.B. Poindexter & Co. Inc.
Issuer Credit Rating

BB-/Stable/--

Senior Unsecured

BB-

Issuer Credit Ratings History
29-Mar-2018

BB-/Stable/--

30-Aug-2012

B+/Stable/--

22-Mar-2012

B/Positive/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 7

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 22, 2019 8

