MTN Infrastructure TopCo Inc.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Ryan Gilmore, New York + 1 (212) 438 0602; ryan.gilmore@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Allyn Arden, CFA, New York (1) 212-438-7832; allyn.arden@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 1

MTN Infrastructure TopCo Inc.
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

b

b

b

B/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key Strengths

Key Risks

Favorable medium-term growth prospects because of the
increasing demand for enterprise connectivity.

Limited market share and intense competition from larger and better capitalized
telecom providers, including incumbents and national fiber providers.

A recurring revenue model with multiyear contracts
provides some cash flow visibility.

Limited geographic diversity.

Low customer churn.

Secular decline of legacy voice and data business.

Healthy reported EBITDA margins of about 40%.

Low levels of free operating cash flow (FOCF) due to significant capital investment.
High leverage and aggressive financial policy reflecting sponsor ownership.

Following its acquisition of Spirit Communications, the company is benefitting from improved scale and modestly better
growth prospects. The acquisition doubled the company's size and expanded its footprint into the Carolinas while
creating cost reduction opportunities through network optimization. The combination also better positions MTN
Infrastructure TopCo Inc. (MTN) to offer its high-margin data services to larger business customers, reducing its
exposure to a declining legacy business.
We expect revenue declines in IP transit, and legacy voice and data services to remain a drag on overall revenue
growth. While MTN has increased its share of revenue from growth areas such as enterprise connectivity, wireless
backhaul and small cells, it still has significant exposure to legacy voice and data services, which are in secular decline.
Nevertheless, we believe that revenue from growth products and services will continue to support top-line growth.
We expect private equity sponsor EQT Infrastructure to maintain an aggressive financial policy. We expect MTN to
maintain steady leverage in the low- to-mid 6x range over the next couple of years, as we believe that EBITDA growth
will be offset by incremental debt to fund network expansion or acquisitions. We also expect free operating cash flow
(FOCF) generation to remain limited over the next couple of years.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 2

MTN Infrastructure TopCo Inc.

Outlook: Stable

The stable outlook reflects our expectation that adjusted leverage will remain steady in the low- to mid-6x range
over the next year as earnings growth is offset by incremental borrowing to fund network expansion.

Downside scenario
We could lower the rating if greater competition results in pricing pressure or higher churn, leading to lower
EBITDA such that leverage is sustained above 6.5x and the company continues to generate minimal FOCF. We
could also lower the rating if MTN adopts a more aggressive financial policy, incurring debt to fund acquisitions or
dividends to its owners, and leverage rises to the aforementioned level.

Upside scenario
Although unlikely under current sponsor ownership, we could raise the rating if adjusted leverage is sustained at
less than 5x. However, even under that scenario, an upgrade is contingent on our confidence in MTN's owners
maintaining a financial policy that allows for leverage to be sustained comfortably at that level, even with more
acquisitions or leveraging events. We would also have to see sustained positive FOCF.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 3

MTN Infrastructure TopCo Inc.

Assumptions

• U.S. GDP growth of about 2.5% in 2019 and 1.8% in
2020. Although telecom spending is generally not
highly correlated with macroeconomic factors, we
believe MTN's operating performance would suffer
from lower demand in a recession.
• Overall revenue growth of 3%-4% in 2019 and in
2020 compared to growth of 3% in 2018, largely
reflecting continued robust demand for networking
and cloud connectivity from enterprise customers
with growing bandwidth needs, and increased
wireless backhaul activity. However, growth is
somewhat constrained by ongoing revenue declines
in IP transit, legacy voice, and legacy enterprise data
services such as time-division multiplexing (TDM).

Key Metrics

EBITDA margin (%)

2018A

2019E

2020E

36

40-41

40-41

FOCF/debt (%)

(4.1)

0-1

0–1

Debt/EBITDA (x)

7.9x 6.2–6.4 6.2–6.4

A--Actual. E—Estimate. FOCF—Free operating cash
flow.

• EBITDA margin remains in the low-40% area in
2019, despite increased contribution from high
margin data services, as we think that higher
operating costs will offset these gains. We expect
modest margin expansion of less than 50 bps in
2020 driven by scale efficiencies and network
expense reductions.
• Capital expenditures as a percentage of revenue
remain elevated in the mid-30% area over the next
couple of years due to continued fiber buildouts and
network enhancement activity.

Base-case projections
We expect revenue growth in the low- to mid-single-digit percent range over the next couple of years. We believe that
rising enterprise demand for bandwidth will offset lower revenue from IP transit and legacy voice services. Legacy
services, which are in secular decline, account for about 20%-25% of overall revenue.
EBITDA growth will be offset by incremental debt to fund network expansion or acquisitions, and that leverage will
remain elevated above 5x. Adjusted leverage was 7.9x in 2018 (excludes five months of results from the Spirit
acquisition). We expect leverage to remain steady in the low to-mid 6x area over the next couple of years based on our
view that EBITDA growth will be offset by borrowing to fund network expansion. At the same time, we expect that
funds from operations (FFO) to debt will remain at 14%-16% through 2020.

Company Description
MTN Infrastructure TopCo, Inc. (parent of Waynesboro, Va.-based
Lumos Networks Corp.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 4

MTN Infrastructure TopCo Inc.

, d/b/a Segra) provides fiber infrastructure and services to carrier, business, and residential customers in the
mid-Atlantic and Southeast regions of the U.S. The company's network includes approximately 21,000 route-miles of
long-haul fiber, metro Ethernet, and Ethernet rings, encompassing 9,000 on-net locations. MTN offers fiber-based
telecom services including metro Ethernet, multi-protocol label switching (MPLS), wireless backhaul, fiber transport
services, wavelength transport services, IP services and other voice services.
MTN's financials are private.

Business Risk: Weak
Our assessment of MTN's business risk reflects its limited market share and scale, and intense competition from larger
players. MTN competes against financially stronger incumbent telcos such as AT&T Inc., Verizon Communications
Inc., CenturyLink Inc., and to a lesser extent, cable providers such Comcast Corp. and Charter Communications Inc.,
which are aggressively targeting the enterprise market. Competition also comes from larger fiber-centric providers
such as Zayo.
As a small fiber bandwidth provider with limited geographic reach, MTN must continuously invest in its network and
maintain superior customer service to effectively compete with the incumbent providers although MTN's regional
footprint is concentrated in somewhat less competitive markets. In addition, the company's multiyear contract profile
and low churn rate provide good revenue and cash flow visibility. Contracts with enterprise customers average three to
five years while contracts with carrier customers average six to seven years.
MTN operates across two business segments, including Data (about three quarters of total revenue), which consists of
enterprise data, transport, and fiber-to-the-cell (FTTC) services, and Residential and Small Business (RSB), which
includes local access, legacy voice, broadband, and IP video. While revenue growth is supported by rising demand
from enterprises for bandwidth and from carriers for wireless backhaul, lower volume and pricing for data transport,
combined with secular pressure on legacy voice and networking services, remain a significant drag on financial results.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
MTN's financial risk reflects its sponsor ownership, elevated adjusted leverage in the low to mid-6x area, and limited
FOCF. We expect relatively steady leverage over the next couple of years based on our view that EBITDA growth will
likely be offset by borrowing to fund network expansion, acquisitions, or shareholder distributions. At the same time,
we expect that FFO to debt will remain at 14%-16% through 2020. Our leverage calculation includes adjustments for
operating leases. The present value of operating leases adds about $22 million to reported debt and $6 million to
reported EBITDA.

Liquidity: Adequate
We view MTN's liquidity as adequate based on our expectation that its sources of liquidity will exceed uses by more
than 1.9x over the next 12 months. We also believe that the company's net sources will remain positive even if our

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 5

MTN Infrastructure TopCo Inc.

forecast of company EBITDA declines by more than 30%. While this degree of coverage could support a higher
liquidity assessment, we believe the company has limited access to the credit markets. Furthermore, the company's
relationships with banks have not yet been tested in a stressed scenario. Moreover, the potential for excess cash to be
used for dividends and acquisitions underpins an assessment of adequate.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Cash and equivalents of about $33 million as of June
30, 2019;

• Capital expenditures in the $140 million-$150
million range over the next 12 months; and

• Full availability under the company's $125 million
revolving credit facility due 2024; and

• Mandatory debt amortization of about $11 million
annually.

• Estimated cash from operations in the $155
million-$165 million range over the next 12 months.

Note: Amortization payment includes amount related
to capital leases.

Covenant Analysis
Requirements
MTN is subject to a maximum first-lien net leverage ratio covenant of 7x when more than 25% of the revolving credit
facility is drawn.

Compliance expectations
We expect the company to maintain sufficient headroom of at least 15% over the next 12 months.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• Our simulated default scenario contemplates a default in 2022 due to speculative capital spending and economic
pressure that leads to customer churn. This would lead to significantly lower revenue, profitability, and cash flow,
and result in a payment default when liquidity and cash flow become insufficient to cover its cash interest expense,
mandatory debt amortization, and maintenance-level capital expenditures.
• At default, our recovery analysis assumes a capital structure consisting of a $125 million revolving credit facility
maturing in 2024 (85% drawn), and $1.125 billion term loan B due in 2024.
• Estimated debt claims also include about six months of accrued but unpaid interest outstanding at default.
• We assess recovery prospects on the basis of a distressed gross recovery value of approximately $694 million. This
is based on an emergence EBITDA of about $126 million and an EBITDA multiple of 5.5x.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 6

MTN Infrastructure TopCo Inc.

Simulated default assumptions

Simplified waterfall

• Simulated year of default: 2022

• Net EV (after 5% administrative costs): $659 million

• EBITDA at emergence: $126 million

• Valuation split (obligors/nonobligors): 73%/27%

• Implied enterprise valuation (EV) multiple: 5.5x

• Estimated net EV available for senior secured debt:
$481 million

• Gross EV: $694 million

• Estimated senior secured debt claims: $1.2 billion
• --Senior secured debt recovery rating: '3' (50%)

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B/Stable/--

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Highly leveraged

• Cash flow/Leverage: Highly leveraged
Anchor: b
Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral
• Capital structure: Neutral
• Financial policy: FS-6 (no additional impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate
• Management and governance: Fair
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral
Stand-alone credit profile : b

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Methodology For Linking Long-Term And Short-Term Ratings, April 7, 2017
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 7

MTN Infrastructure TopCo Inc.

• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Telecommunications And Cable Industry, June 22,
2014
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Business Risk Profile
Excellent
Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

Ratings Detail (As Of September 23, 2019)*
MTN Infrastructure TopCo Inc.
Issuer Credit Rating

B/Stable/--

Senior Secured

B

Issuer Credit Ratings History
17-Oct-2017

B/Stable/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 8

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2019 9

