Travel Leaders Group LLC
Primary Credit Analyst:
Justin D Gerstley, CFA, New York (1) 212-438-1890; justin.gerstley@spglobal.com
Secondary Contacts:
Emile J Courtney, CFA, New York (1) 212-438-7824; emile.courtney@spglobal.com
Daniel Giambrone, New York + 1 (212) 438 8229; daniel.giambrone@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 1

Travel Leaders Group LLC
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

b+

b+

b+

Financial Risk: AGGRESSIVE
Highly leveraged

B+/Negative/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key Strengths

Key Risks

Solid position in the niche high-end corporate and luxury
leisure travel segment.

Highly competitive and fragmented travel industry.

Good relationships with suppliers.

Technological disruption and the potential for disintermediation in the
traditional travel agency business.

Acquisitive strategy partially mitigates disintermediation risk.

Event risk related to contagious illness, violence, extreme weather, and
terrorism.
Limited geographic and business diversity compared with other global leisure
companies.
Pro forma for acquisitions, adjusted leverage to be close to our 5x downgrade
threshold through 2019.

We expect that pro forma for acquisitions, operating lease-adjusted debt to EBITDA will be close to our 5x downgrade
threshold through the end of 2019. Although adjusted leverage exceeded 5x at the end of 2018, we expect significant
EBITDA growth in 2019 as Travel Leaders Group LLC (TLG) benefits from recent acquisitions, including UK-based
meeting and event management firm YES in 2019 and hotel wholesaler Bonotel Exclusive Travel in 2018. EBITDA will
also benefit from the company's cost cutting initiatives as TLG completes IT investments that will standardize
programs (like its new financial reporting program) among each of its travel agency acquisitions and enable it to
reduce headcount through 2020. Although this would improve leverage to just below our 5x downgrade threshold, we
are retaining our negative outlook to reflect the continued weakness in this measure. We could revise the outlook to
stable if the company is able to deleverage to comfortably less than 5x. However, if further acquisitions lead to greater
leverage, we could lower our rating.
TLG's acquisitive strategy has widened service offerings, partially mitigating technology and disintermediation risk.We
view technological disruption and the potential for disintermediation in the traditional travel agency business as key
risk factors because we think that it continues to get easier for consumers to book travel online. However, TLG's
strategy to acquire scale drives higher volumes to key suppliers and an increasing breadth of services to consumers.
We believe this partially mitigates the disintermediation risk, and can help preserve margin despite the associated
integration risk.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 2

Travel Leaders Group LLC

The travel industry is heavily dependent on discretionary consumer and corporate travel spending, and as such, TLG
incurs high selling, general and administrative (SG&A) costs to remain competitive. TLG operates in the highly
competitive and fragmented travel industry, providing travel services directly to clients in the premium corporate and
luxury leisure segment. The high degree of competition within the industry requires TLG to spend heavily on SG&A,
which could continue to constrain margins, especially during an economic downturn. SG&A as a percentage of
revenue has grown annually for the past five years. However, we anticipate that this trend could reverse as the
company rolls out its new financial reporting platform, which should enable reduced technology headcount and
spending through 2020. However, we think that the fragmented nature of the industry would limit TLG's pricing power
if travel volumes fell.

Outlook: Negative

The negative outlook reflects our expectation that the incremental debt to fund the acquisition of Bonotel,
combined with higher than previously expected SG&A costs, will result in leverage near our 5x downgrade
threshold over the next year. We expect TLG will continue to be acquisitive, and additional debt-funded
acquisitions or cost overruns could result in our measure of total adjusted leverage to exceed 5x over the
intermediate term.

Downside scenario
We could lower the rating if TLG makes additional large debt-financed acquisitions, or if it cannot manage costs
while successfully integrating acquired businesses, such that we believe the company will sustain adjusted leverage
exceeding 5x.

Upside scenario
We could revise our outlook on the rating to stable if we believe TLG can maintain leverage of less than 5x, likely
the result of good cost management and funding future acquisitions without increasing leverage. Higher ratings are
unlikely at this time, because we believe TLG will utilize leverage capacity for future acquisitions. However, we
could raise the rating if we are confident that the company will maintain leverage of less than 3.5x, incorporating
the potential future acquisitions and shareholder returns.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 3

Travel Leaders Group LLC

Assumptions

Key Metrics

• U.S. real GDP grows 2.5% in 2019 and 1.8% in 2020;
• Consumer spending grows 2.5% in 2019, and 2.0%
in 2020;
• Real GDP and consumer spending growth will
support increases in TLG commission revenue
because of a willingness of the consumer to spend
on travel;
• Revenue grows in the mid- to high- single digit
percent range in 2019, driven by low- to mid- single
digit percent organic revenue growth and the impact
of recent acquisitions;

2018A

2019E

2020E

Adjusted debt/EBITDA (x)

6.0

High- 4

Mid- 4

Adjusted FFO/debt (%)

9.9 High- teens Low-20

Adjusted EBITDA coverage of interest (x)

2.4

3

Mid- 3

*2018A is not pro forma for acquisitions.
A--Actual. E—Estimate

• Absent further acquisitions, we expect EBITDA to
grow in the low- to mid- teen percent range in 2019,
as a result of revenue growth and cost savings
initiatives;
• For 2020, we preliminarily expect organic revenue
to grow in the low- to mid- single digit percent
range, which coupled with modest margin
improvement from continued cost savings from the
rollout of its new financial reporting platform, would
drive EBITDA growth in the mid- to high- single
digit percent range; and
• About $100 million of total acquisitions in 2019, with
an expectation of at least another $150 million in
acquisitions annually thereafter. We have assumed
in our base case forecast that the company
completes acquisitions at a 6x EBITDA multiple on
average, and that it funds the transactions with 50%
debt and 50% cash flow.

Base-case projections
Our base-case forecast incorporates incremental debt to fund future acquisitions.We assume TLG will continue to
make tuck-in acquisitions going forward, and that these acquisitions will be at least partially debt-funded. Therefore,
we incorporate into our base-case measures an assumed level of debt and EBITDA contribution from these
acquisitions. The company's 2018 acquisition of hotel wholesaler Bonotel Exclusive Travel was larger than average for
TLG, and nearly entirely debt-funded. However, we believe that TLG typically makes moderate-sized acquisitions and
funds them with debt plus a mix of available cash and cash flow. We have assumed in our base case forecast that the
company completes acquisitions at a 6x EBITDA multiple on average, and that it funds the transactions with 50% debt
and 50% cash flow.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 4

Travel Leaders Group LLC

Ongoing investments could drive margin improvement. In 2018, the company initiated improvements to its digital
marketing, technology, and finance infrastructure, which increased SG&A and capital spending. The company expects
to roll out these updated systems starting in the second half of 2019 and in 2020. We anticipate margin improvement
through 2020 as the company begins to benefit from these initiatives, and TLG should be able to reduce headcount in
these areas.

Company Description
TLG is a travel agency organization operating under a variety of divisions and brands. Through some 6,000 travel
agencies and more than 40,000 commission-based travel agents, the company focuses on high-end corporate and
luxury leisure travel.

Business Risk: Weak
Besides being reliant on discretionary spending, TLG is exposed to event risk related to contagious illness, violence,
extreme weather, or terrorism that can lower travel volumes. In addition, the company has limited geographic and
business diversity compared with those of other global leisure companies. TLG's solid position in the niche high-end
corporate and luxury leisure travel segment, as well as its good relationships with affluent clients and its suppliers
(including airlines, hotels, and cruise lines) partially mitigate these factors.
We view TLG's strategic marketing agreement with American Express favorably. The five-year contract provides for a
minimum level of annual payments to TLG from American Express. In return, TLG's travel agents will have the
opportunity to help expand distribution of American Express credit cards and fulfill travel bookings for some American
Express customers, among other benefits. Overall, we believe the agreement is a credit positive for TLG, due to the
fixed minimum payments from American Express and the potential for additional EBITDA if TLG achieves certain
performance targets. However, there is some execution risk for TLG that makes us uncertain whether the contracted
payments will recur beyond the initial five-year period.

Financial Risk: Aggressive
Our financial risk profile reflects our expectation that pro forma for acquisitions, adjusted debt to EBITDA will improve
to the high- 4x area in 2019, and the mid- 4x area in 2020. EBITDA interest coverage will likely be good, exceeding 3x
through 2020.

Liquidity: Adequate
We view TLG's liquidity as adequate. We expect sources of liquidity to exceed uses by 1.2x over the next 12 months,
even if EBITDA were to underperform our forecast by 15%. We also expect TLG to remain in compliance with its
maximum total net leverage ratio covenant under its revolving credit facility, even if EBITDA were to underperform
our forecast by 15%. TLG has no meaningful debt maturities until 2022 when the $50 million revolver matures. We
believe TLG has sound relationships with its banks, and is committed to maintaining adequate liquidity.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 5

Travel Leaders Group LLC

Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Availability under the $50 million revolver;

• Capital expenditures of about 3% of revenue in
2019, slightly moderating as the company completes
its new IT projects;

• Unrestricted cash on hand of $66 million as of June
2019; and
• Growth in cash flow from operations due to
acquisitions and modest working capital needs.

• Potential acquisitions in 2019 and 2020. Tuck-in
acquisitions to be funded with cash on hand, and
larger acquisitions are likely to be at least partially
funded with additional term loan borrowings;
• Annual amortization payments of 1% under the
senior secured term loan; and
• Small dividends to members, equal to their
estimated tax liabilities, per TLG's limited liability
corporation structure.

Covenant Analysis
Compliance expectations
TLG is subject to a maximum net leverage covenant of 4.5x, which springs when its revolver draw exceeds 35% of the
total commitment. We expect the company to remain in compliance with said covenant even if EBITDA were to
decline 15% below expectations.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors
• Our issue-level rating on TLG's senior secured debt is 'B+'. The senior secured credit facility consists of the $50
million cash flow revolver due 2022 and the $627 million term loan due 2024. The recovery rating is '3', which
indicates our expectation for meaningful recovery (50% to 70%; rounded estimate 50%) in a payment default.
• Our simulated default scenario contemplates a default in 2023, primarily because of a cyclical decline in the overall
travel demand. We assume a reorganization following the default, using an emergence EBITDA multiple of 5.5x to
value the company, due to highly variable travel patterns over the economic cycle—partially offset by TLG's
exposure to wealthy clients.
• We assume a hypothetical default in 2023 would be preceded by American Express opting not to renew its strategic
agreement with TLG when the contract ends in 2022. Therefore, our emergence valuation does not incorporate any
value from that agreement.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 6

Travel Leaders Group LLC

Simulated default assumptions

Simplified waterfall

• Year of default: 2023

• Emergence EBITDA: $67 million

• EBITDA at emergence: $67 million

• Multiple: 5.5x

• EBITDA multiple: 5.5x

• Gross recovery value: $366 million

• Cash flow revolver: 85% drawn at default

• Net recovery value for waterfall after administrative
expenses (5%): $348 million
• Obligor/nonobligor valuation split: 95%/5%
• Estimated secured debt: $666 million
• Value available for first-lien claim: $342
• —Recovery expectation: 50%-70% (rounded
estimate: 50%)
All debt amounts include six months of prepetition
interest.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B+/Negative/--

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Aggressive

• Cash flow/Leverage: Aggressive
Anchor: b+
Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)
• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: Neutral (no impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 7

Travel Leaders Group LLC

Stand-alone credit profile : b+

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Methodology For Linking Long-Term And Short-Term Ratings, April 7, 2017
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Leisure And Sports Industry, March 5, 2014
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Business Risk Profile

Minimal

Excellent

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

Weak

bb+

Vulnerable

bb-

Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly leveraged

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

bbb

bb+

bb

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bb+

bb

bb-

b

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Ratings Detail (As Of September 20, 2019)*
Travel Leaders Group LLC
Issuer Credit Rating

B+/Negative/--

Senior Secured

B+

Issuer Credit Ratings History
07-Aug-2018

B+/Negative/--

24-Mar-2015

B+/Stable/--

09-Dec-2014

BB-/Stable/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 8

Travel Leaders Group LLC

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 9

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 10

