Ken Garff Automotive LLC
Primary Credit Analyst:
Lawrence Orlowski, CFA, New York (1) 212-438-7800; lawrence.orlowski@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Nishit K Madlani, New York (1) 212-438-4070; nishit.madlani@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Environmental, Social, And Governance
Group Influence
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Ratings Score Snapshot
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 1

Ken Garff Automotive LLC
Business Risk: WEAK

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

b+

b+

b+

Financial Risk: AGGRESSIVE
Highly leveraged

B+/Stable/--

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key Strengths

Key Risks

Resilient business model with diverse revenue streams. Competitive pricing environment.
Good data-driven operational controls.

Significant brand and geographic concentration.

Consistent free operating cash flow (FOCF).

More modest scale than public peers.

Ken Garff Automotive Group Inc.'s business model has diverse revenue streams, which should partially offset a
slowdown in new-car sales. As an auto retailer, Ken Garff's revenue sources include sales of new and used vehicles,
parts and service (P&S), and finance and insurance (F&I) products. While most revenue comes from vehicle sales, P&S
contributes about 32% of gross profit. This model provides recurring revenue and acts as a stabilizing force, especially
helpful during economic downturns.
We believe the company's smaller scale and greater sales concentration versus other rated U.S. peers introduce more
risks. Ken Garff had total 2018 revenue of $4.3 billion, last among other rated U.S. auto retailers. Also, Ken Garff has
substantial geographic concentration, with 76% of 2018 sales coming from three states: Utah, California, and Texas.
Moreover, the company's brand mix is mostly domestic. Nevertheless, a positive is that domestic sales, mostly
Chrysler and Ford brands, are derived from more profitable segments of the North American light-vehicle market, such
as SUVs and pickups.
We believe Ken Garff will continue to reduce its cost structure in 2019. Selling, general, and administrative (SG&A)
expense as a percentage of gross profit was over 80%, higher than that of rated U.S. peers. This is partly because of the
size of rent payments; its policy is to secure operating leases rather than buy the real estate underlying dealerships.
Still, we expect the company will take actions to rationalize corporate expenses and that gross profit will move toward
70% over the next several years.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 2

Ken Garff Automotive LLC

Outlook: Stable

The stable outlook includes our belief that the company will maintain current profitability and margins, leverage
below the 5x threshold, and an FOCF-to-debt ratio above 5% over the next 12 months.

Downside scenario
We could lower the rating if profitability decreases due to weakening businesses conditions or operational
performance. As a result, we would expect debt to EBITDA to exceed 5x and FOCF to debt below 5% on a
sustained basis.

Upside scenario
We could raise ratings if, due to meaningful cost reduction or greater diversification arising from successfully
integrated acquisitions, EBITDA margins improve toward 4% or higher. Moreover, we expect debt to EBITDA to
fall below 4x and FOCF to debt above 10% on a sustained basis.

Our Base-Case Scenario
Assumptions

Key Metrics

Our base-case assumptions for the rating include:

2018A 2019E 2020E 2021E
EBITDA margin (%)

3.5

3-3.5

3-3.5

3-3.5

N.M.

5-10

5-10

10-15

6.5

4-4.5

4-4.5

4-4.5

• U.S. sales of new light vehicles of 16.7 million units
in 2019 and 16.5 million units in 2020, partly
because of falling used-car prices. This is somewhat
offset by low U.S. unemployment and an average
vehicle age of over 11 years.

All figures are S&P Global Ratings-adjusted.

• Continued slow and steady recovery for the U.S.
economy, with a baseline forecast of 2.5% GDP
growth in 2019 and 1.8% in 2020.

A--Actual. E--Estimate. FOCF--Free operating cash
flow. N.M.--Not meaningful.

FOCF to debt (%)
Debt to EBITDA (x)

• Organic sales growth at a compound annual rate of
about 1%-2% through 2020.
• Modest EBITDA margin expansion as Ken Garff
continues to drive comparability, accountability, and
transparency through its proprietary management
system.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 3

Ken Garff Automotive LLC

Base-case projections
Based on these assumptions, we arrive at the following credit measures for 2019-2020:
• Debt to EBITDA of about 4.5x-5x.
• FOCF to debt of about 5%-10%.

Company Description
Ken Garff operates 50 automotive dealerships in the U.S. It offers 25 brands of new and used vehicles in 50 stores and
86 franchises.

Business Risk: Weak
Our rating on Garff reflects our view that its profitability, scale, and geographic diversity fall below those of rated U.S.
auto retailers. The company had 2018 revenue of $4.3 billion, significantly less than that of our smallest rated U.S. auto
retailer, Asbury Automotive, which was about $6.9 billion. Garff's sales are also more concentrated when measured by
the top three states in which it operates. Moreover, its EBITDA margin of 3.5% is below average among rated peers,
partly as a result of higher SG&A expenses.
Still, Garff shares in the resiliency of the auto retailer model. Revenue comes from the sale of new and used vehicles,
F&I, and P&S. Although new- and used-vehicle sales are 75% of revenue in 2019 year-to-date, 59% of gross profits
come from P&S (32%) and F&I (27%). P&S and used-vehicle sales tend to provide some revenue and margin stability
during industry downturns.
Garff has 50 dealerships across six states. The top five states by 2018 revenue are Utah (40%), California (21%), Texas
(15%), Michigan (10%), and Iowa (14%). The company's new-vehicle sales are heavily weighted toward Chrysler
(31%), which focuses risk on the performance of one automaker. Additionally, Garff is the most exposed to domestic
brands, as this segment accounted for 56% of 2018 revenue, and we don't expect brand mix will change materially in
the near term.
Garff's competitive position benefits from established relationships with automakers and the floorplan financing these
automakers provide. Moreover, its corporatewide automated systems make its dealer management and customer
service operations more efficient.
Macroeconomic drivers for the automotive retailers--in particular, new-vehicle sales--include general economic
conditions such as consumer confidence, personal discretionary spending, interest rates, fuel prices, unemployment
rates, and consumer credit availability. We believe macroeconomic factors overall to generally support light-vehicle
demand.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 4

Ken Garff Automotive LLC

Financial Risk: Aggressive
We assess Garff's financial risk profile as aggressive. Consequently, we expect the company to maintain debt to
EBITDA below 5x and FOCF to debt of at least 5% on a sustained basis.

Liquidity: Adequate
We assess Garff's liquidity as adequate. Our assessment incorporates the following expectations and assumptions:
• Sources of liquidity, including cash and facility availability, will be at least 1.2x uses over the next 12-18 months.
• Net sources will remain positive even if EBITDA declines by more than 15%.
• The company could absorb low-probability, high-impact shocks with limited need for refinancing due to its good
conversion of EBITDA to discretionary cash flow.

Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• About $91 million cash and cash equivalents (as of
June 30, 2019).

• Capital spending of about $9.5 million in 2019 and
$11 million in 2020.

• Funds from operations of about $65 million in 2019
and over $70 million in 2020.

• Distribution to members in lieu of tax of around $14
million in 2019 and $16 million in 2020.
• No material working capital swings over the next 12
months.

Covenant Analysis
Compliance expectations

Requirements

As of June 30, 2019, Ken Garff was in compliance with
the covenants under its existing credit facility, and we
expect that it will remain so through 2019 and into
2020.

This facility requires the maintenance of certain
financial covenants including, current ratio, fixed
charge coverage ratio, and used floor plan limitations.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 5

Ken Garff Automotive LLC

Environmental, Social, And Governance

Ken Garff does not face the demands of designing and manufacturing vehicles that comply with air emissions
regulations, therefore its environmental responsibilities are more circumscribed that those of automakers or parts
suppliers. Still, it is subject to many environmental laws and regulations, including those governing discharges into
water, air emissions, and the storage and disposal of hazardous or toxic wastes.
The company requires appropriate insurance to cover personal injury and property loss claims from employees,
customers, and third parties arising in the course of its business. Based on available information, we believe Ken
Garff operates in compliance with environmental laws and regulations, and that there are no material liabilities that
would hurt its financial performance and condition.
We see Ken Garff's management and governance as satisfactory, reflecting consistent operational performance and
management's demonstrated industry expertise.

Group Influence
We believe parent Ken Garff Enterprises has incentives to provide support if its automotive subsidiary faces financial
and operational distress. We consider Ken Garff Automotive to be a core subsidiary; however, the parent's
creditworthiness doesn't affect the stand-alone rating on Ken Garff Automotive.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Key analytical factors

• We value the company on a going-concern basis using a 5x multiple of our projected emergence EBITDA plus
95% of new-car inventories and 95% of used-car inventories.
• We estimate that for the company to default, EBITDA would need to decline significantly, representing a
material deterioration from the current state of its business.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 6

Ken Garff Automotive LLC

Simulated default assumptions

Simplified waterfall

• Simulated year of default: 2023

• Net enterprise value (after 5% administrative costs):
$1.247 billion

• EBITDA at emergence: $90.1 million
• EBITDA multiple: 5x

• Valuation split in % (obligors/nonobligors): 100/0
• Priority claims: $1.135 billion
• Value available to first-lien debt claims
(collateral/noncollateral): $112 million/$0
• Secured first-lien debt claims: $12 million
• --Recovery expectations: N/A
• Total value available to unsecured claims: $100
million
• Senior unsecured debt/pari passu unsecured claims:
$389 million/$11.4 million
• --Recovery expectations: 10%-30% (rounded
estimate: 20%)
All debt amounts include six months of prepetition
interest. Collateral value equals asset pledge from
obligors after priority claims plus equity pledge from
nonobligors after nonobligor debt.

Ratings Score Snapshot
Issuer Credit Rating
B+/Stable/--

Business risk: Weak

• Country risk: Very low
• Industry risk: Intermediate
• Competitive position: Weak
Financial risk: Aggressive

• Cash flow/Leverage: Aggressive
Anchor: b+
Modifiers

• Diversification/Portfolio effect: Neutral (no impact)

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 7

Ken Garff Automotive LLC

• Capital structure: Neutral (no impact)
• Financial policy: Neutral (no impact)
• Liquidity: Adequate (no impact)
• Management and governance: Fair (no impact)
• Comparable rating analysis: Neutral (no impact)
Stand-alone credit profile : b+

• Group credit profile: b+

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, July 1, 2019
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, April 1, 2019
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate
Issuers, Dec. 16, 2014
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria | Corporates | Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Retail And Restaurants Industry, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Business Risk Profile

Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly leveraged

Excellent

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

Ratings Detail (As Of September 24, 2019)*
Ken Garff Automotive LLC
Issuer Credit Rating

B+/Stable/--

Senior Unsecured

B

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 8

Ken Garff Automotive LLC

Ratings Detail (As Of September 24, 2019)*(cont.)
Issuer Credit Ratings History
30-Jul-2018

B+/Stable/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 9

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 10

