Petco Holdings Inc.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Cameron Bybee, New York + 1 (212) 438 8298; cameron.bybee@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Andy G Sookram, New York (1) 212-438-5024; andy.sookram@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Our Base-Case Scenario
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Covenant Analysis
Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 16, 2019 1

Petco Holdings Inc.
Credit Highlights
Issuer Credit Rating
CCC+/Negative/--

Overview
Key strengths

Key risks

Good market position as the second-largest specialty
pet brick and mortar retailer.

Discounted debt trading prices heighten the risk of a distressed exchange or
restructuring.

Improving same-store sales and operating performance
due to strategic initiatives.

Increasing competition from supermarkets, mass-market channels, and pure-play
e-commerce competitors, including Chewy and Amazon.
Weak credit metrics and negative free operating cash flow (FOCF) generation over the
next 12 months.
Susceptible to changing consumer shopping preferences.

Petco's capital structure remains unsustainable as we expect it to sustain debt to EBITDA in the high 6x area with
negative FOCF generation over the next 12 months. Although we forecast a modest improvement in Petco's top-line
performance, we continue to believe its capital structure is unsustainable because of its large debt obligations relative
to its EBITDA base and our current expectation for EBITDA declines and weak cash flow over the next 12 months.
Industry headwinds remain, though Petco maintains a good market position. Petco remains the second-largest player
in the highly fragmented and competitive pet supply retail industry behind PetSmart. The company is facing intense
competitive pressures from online and regional pet supply retailers in addition to supermarkets and mass-market
channels. These competitors have strengthened their merchandise offerings to include premium products previously
sold primarily through specialty retailers.
Positive top-line performance due to management's strategic initiatives with positive same-store sales in the last two
quarters. The company is focused on expanding veterinary services at its brick-and-mortar locations, improving its
customer experience for existing services (including grooming and other pet care), and investing in omni-channel
capabilities. In our view, Petco's positive same-store sales demonstrate that these initiatives are gaining traction with
consumers. However, given the competitive environment, the company will need to make continued investments to
capture consumer traffic and drive top-line performance improvement.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 16, 2019 2

Petco Holdings Inc.

Outlook

The negative outlook on Petco reflects the risk that the company's operating performance could weaken in the
near term as competition intensifies, leading to soft traffic trends and declining profit. This downside risk remains
because Petco's strategic initiatives may be insufficient to sustain the improvement in its traffic trends. We forecast
that the company's leverage will remain in the high 6x area and anticipate its fixed-charge coverage ratio will be in
the low-1x area over the next 12 months.

Downside scenario
We could lower our rating on Petco if its performance deteriorates such that we envision a specific default
scenario, including a below-par debt repayment. We could also lower our rating if the company's same-store sales
turned negative, straining its cash flows and requiring it to draw on its revolver to maintain its operations.

Upside scenario
An outlook revision to stable would require that the company generates meaningful EBITDA growth, leading it to
sustain leverage in the low 6x area while its fixed-charge coverage rises to roughly 1.5x. We would also need to
believe a debt exchange or other form of restructuring is unlikely and expect that the company's lenders would be
repaid at par.

Our Base-Case Scenario

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 16, 2019 3

Petco Holdings Inc.

Assumptions

• U.S. GDP growth of 2.5% in 2019 and 1.8% in 2020,
unemployment sustained in the mid 3% range, and
annual consumer spending growth of roughly 2%;
• Same-store sales increase by the low single-digit
percent area in the next year, which is slightly below
to in line with our GDP forecast, because the
benefits from management's strategic initiatives are
partially offset by continued pressure on customer
traffic;

Key Metrics

2018A

2019E

2020E

Debt to EBITDA (x)

6.6 Mid to high 6x Mid to high 6x

FFO to debt (%)

8.1

Below 10%

Below 10%

EBITDA interest coverage (x)

2.1

Low-2x

Low-2x

A--Actual. E--Estimate. FFO--Funds from operations.

• S&P-adjusted EBITDA margin declines by roughly
50 basis points (bps) as the company makes
strategic investments to improve the customer
experience in its stores and expands its services,
which are slightly offset by its cost-savings efforts;
and
• Capital spending of between $140 million and $150
million primarily for store remodels to expand
veterinary services and maintenance.

Company Description
Petco Holdings Inc. is a specialty pet consumables and supplies retailer that operates roughly 1,500 stores in the U.S.
The company also offers in-store services including grooming, dog training, and veterinary services. In addition, it
operates an e-commerce platform through www.petco.com.

Business Risk
Petco is contending with broader industry trends, including a general shift in consumer spending toward online
channels, a shift in pet food sales toward mass channels, and an increased customer focus on natural and organic pet
foods. Our view of Petco's business risk is supported by the company's market position as the second-largest player in
the specialty pet industry with good domestic geographic diversity and brand recognition.
Petco has responded to these industry pressures by improving its assortment of exclusive and premium brands and
removing all non-natural brands (those that include artificial ingredients) from its stores. However, the company's
online and omni-channel capabilities continue to lag those of other retailers. In our view, these capabilities are critical
for the company to compete effectively in the current retail environment. It remains unclear whether Petco's
investments will be sufficient to sustain the recent improvement in its operating performance.
Petco's competitors are emphasizing low prices and convenience as differentiating characteristics to emphasize their

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 16, 2019 4

Petco Holdings Inc.

value proposition. They have also expanded their product assortments to include more nutritional and healthy
consumables, as well as premium products that were once primarily sold at specialty pet retailers. We believe that pet
owners have more loyalty to the brands they are purchasing than the retailer, which has created a headwind for the
specialty retailers because some these brands are now available through other retail channels.
Petco will need to offer its customers a compelling in-store experience to generate traffic and prevent sales losses to
online and other competitors. Management's plan to expand veterinary services should incentivize customers to visit
its store locations and lead to improving traffic trends, though this initiative will require considerable time and capital
spending given that there are currently vets at only 3% of the company's locations.
We expect the company's strategic initiatives to continue to translate into positive same-store sales, though the costs
associated with their implementation will depress its EBITDA over the next 12 months. Petco will need to accelerate
its same-store sales improvement beyond our base-case expectations (along with appropriately managing its cost
structure) to expand its EBITDA base, which we believe is critical to support its current capital structure.

Financial Risk
The company's high adjusted leverage, projected negative FOCF generation, and pressured fixed-charge coverage
ratio contribute to our view that its capital structure is unsustainable. We also highlight that the company's term loan is
currently trading at distressed levels, which heightens the risk for a distressed exchange or balance-sheet restructuring.

Liquidity
We forecast that Petco will have adequate liquidity for its operating needs over the next 12 months based on the
company's revolver availability, cash flow generation, and balance sheet cash. We expect its liquidity sources to be
more than 1.2x its uses and believe that its net sources will remain positive even if its EBITDA declines by 15%.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Existing cash of approximately $45 million as of May
3, 2019;

• Capital expenditure to support the opening of new
stores and ongoing maintenance; and

• Availability under its $500 million revolver, subject
to a borrowing base; and

• Modest debt amortization.

• Cash from operations of approximately $125
million-$150 million over the next 12 months.

Debt maturities
• $500 million senior secured asset-based lending (ABL) revolving credit facility maturing Oct. 27, 2022;
• $2,525 million ($2,443 million outstanding as of May 3, 2019) senior secured term loan facility maturing Jan. 26,
2023; and

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 16, 2019 5

Petco Holdings Inc.

• $750 million of senior notes maturing Jan. 26, 2024.

Covenant Analysis
Compliance expectations
• Petco's ABL facility has a springing financial covenant. We do not expect the company to experience any
compliance issues based on our forecast.

Issue Ratings - Recovery Analysis
Please see our detailed recovery report to be published shortly after this report on RatingsDirect.

Related Criteria
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, July 1, 2019
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, April 1, 2019
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Recovery Rating Criteria For Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, Dec. 7, 2016
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate
Issuers, Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria | Corporates | Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Retail And Restaurants Industry, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria | Corporates | General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Criteria For Assigning 'CCC+', 'CCC', 'CCC-', And 'CC' Ratings, Oct. 1, 2012
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Ratings Detail (As Of August 16, 2019)*
Petco Holdings Inc.
Issuer Credit Rating

CCC+/Negative/--

Issuer Credit Ratings History
12-Apr-2018

CCC+/Negative/--

11-Jan-2018

B-/Negative/--

22-Sep-2017

B/Negative/--

05-Jan-2016

B/Stable/--

23-Nov-2015

B/Watch Neg/--

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 16, 2019 6

Petco Holdings Inc.

Ratings Detail (As Of August 16, 2019)*(cont.)
Related Entities
Petco Animal Supplies Inc.
Issuer Credit Rating

CCC+/Negative/--

Senior Secured

CCC+

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 16, 2019 7

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

AUGUST 16, 2019 8

