Bao-Trans Enterprises Ltd.
Primary Credit Analyst:
Christine Li, Hong Kong (852) 2532-8005; Christine.Li@spglobal.com
Secondary Contact:
Danny Huang, Hong Kong (852) 2532-8078; danny.huang@spglobal.com

Table Of Contents
Credit Highlights
Outlook
Company Description
Business Risk
Financial Risk
Liquidity
Group Influence
Related Criteria

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 1

Bao-Trans Enterprises Ltd.
Business Risk: VULNERABLE

Issuer Credit Rating
Vulnerable

Excellent

Financial Risk: HIGHLY LEVERAGED
Highly leveraged

a-

b-

A-/Stable/--

b-

Minimal
Anchor

Modifiers

Group/Gov't

Credit Highlights
Overview
Key strengths

Key risks

Fully integrated with its parent, Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. Ltd. Limited operating scale and high concentration risk.
Strong support from parent in all aspects.

High leverage due to its status as parent's offshore financing vehicle.

To remain highly integrated with Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. Ltd. (A-/Stable/--) as its sole offshore platform. We
continue to view Bao-Trans Enterprises Ltd. (A-/Stable/--) as a core subsidiary of Baoshan because Bao-Trans will
continue to serve as Baoshan's only offshore platform for iron ore procurement, financing, and shipping. We also
believe Baoshan will maintain 100% ownership in Bao-Trans and execute strong supervision and control over the
company.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 2

Bao-Trans Enterprises Ltd.

Outlook: Stable

The stable outlook on Bao-Trans reflects the outlook on Baoshan.
The stable outlook on Baoshan reflects the rating outlook on its parent, China Baowu Steel Group Corp. Ltd.
(A-/Stable/--).
The stable outlook on Baowu reflects our expectation that the company will maintain its profitability over the next
one to two years. Baowu's leading position in China's steel market, strong pricing power, and efficient cost control
should ensure a decent profit margin in the next 12-24 months, even if steel prices retreat from current levels. It
also reflects our expectation that the company will maintain disciplined capital expenditure without aggressive
merger and acquisition plans.

Downside scenario
We may lower the rating on Baoshan if Baowu's profitability deteriorates such that its debt-to-EBITDA ratio
sustains above 13.0x. That could happen due to:
(1) weaker steel demand and prices than we expect; (2) higher cost inflation than we anticipate, which is not passed
on to end users; or (3) aggressive capital outlays that weaken the company's cash flows.

Upside scenario
We may upgrade the rating on Baoshan if Baowu's debt-to-EBITDA ratio remains well below 2.0x and Baowu
maintains positive free operating cash flows for a sustainable period. This could be due to improved profitability
amid a strengthening market position and ability to control costs.

Company Description
Bao-Trans is a wholly owned subsidiary of Baoshan since 2005 when Baoshan acquired 100% interest from its parent,
formerly known as Baosteel Group Corp. It is Baoshan's only offshore platform for overseas iron ore procurement,
trading, financing, and shipping.

Business Risk: Vulnerable
Bao-Trans is likely to maintain its strategic relevance to Baoshan, which underpins its status within the group. We
believe Bao-Trans will still be highly integrated with Baoshan.
Bao-Trans' business position on a stand-alone basis is vulnerable due to its small business scale with operations limited
to iron ore trading, financing, and shipping. Baoshan directly manages Bao-Tran's daily operation and provides
supports from all aspects.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 3

Bao-Trans Enterprises Ltd.

Financial Risk: Highly leveraged
We expect Bao-Trans' debt leverage to remain high on a stand-alone basis because it serves as the offshore financing
platform for Baoshan's iron ore procurement. Bao-Trans raises debt for its parent's business uses. Its operating cash
flows will continue to remain limited as compared to its high debt over the next 12-24 months.

Liquidity: Adequate
We assess Bao-Trans' liquidity as adequate, reflecting our assessment of Baoshan's liquidity. Bao-Trans is fully
integrated with its parent and the support from Baoshan will ensure that the subsidiary has access to funding sources
without significant refinancing risk.
We assess Baoshan's liquidity as adequate. We forecast that the company's liquidity sources will exceed liquidity uses
by more than 1.2x over the 12 months to September 2019. Net liquidity sources should remain positive even if
EBITDA declines by 15% from our base case. The company has solid banking relationships and good access to capital
markets, demonstrated by a track record of relatively low funding costs.
Principal Liquidity Sources

Principal Liquidity Uses

• Cash and short-term investments of Chinese
renminbi (RMB) 19 billion as of Sept. 30, 2018.

• Short-term debt maturing in 12 months of about
RMB68 billion as of Sept. 30, 2018.

• Funds from operations that we forecast to be
RMB39 billion-RMB40 billion for the 12 months
ending Sept. 30, 2019.

• Working capital needs of about RMB500 million in
the 12 months ending Sept. 30, 2019.

• Ongoing government support of RMB68 billion in
the form of credit lines from policy and state-owned
banks to refinance short-term debt in the next 12
months.

• Capital expenditure of about RMB15 billion for the
period.
• Dividend payout of RMB11 billion-RMB12 billion for
the period.

Group Influence
Bao-Trans' operations and financial management are fully integrated with those of Baoshan. Therefore we assess
Bao-Trans as a core subsidiary of Baoshan and its ratings equalize with that of Baoshan.
Bao-Trans is Baoshan's only wholly owned offshore platform to procure, finance, and ship iron ore. We expect
Baoshan to maintain its 100% ownership of Bao-Trans. Bao-Trans has been receiving strong and consistent
commitment of support from Baoshan's senior management since its establishment. We expect Baoshan to continue
having full control and strong supervision over Bao-Trans' operations.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 4

Bao-Trans Enterprises Ltd.

Related Criteria
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Reflecting Subordination Risk In Corporate Issue Ratings, March 28, 2018
• General Criteria: Guarantee Criteria, Oct. 21, 2016
• General Criteria: Rating Government-Related Entities: Methodology And Assumptions, March 25, 2015
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global Corporate Issuers,
Dec. 16, 2014
• Criteria - Corporates - Industrials: Key Credit Factors For The Metals And Mining Downstream Industry, Dec. 20,
2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And Assumptions, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology: Ratios And Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
• Criteria - Corporates - General: Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Timeliness Of Payments: Grace Periods, Guarantees, And Use Of 'D' And 'SD'
Ratings, Oct. 24, 2013
• General Criteria: Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate Entities And Insurers,
Nov. 13, 2012
• General Criteria: Stand-Alone Credit Profiles: One Component Of A Rating, Oct. 1, 2010
• General Criteria: Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009
Business And Financial Risk Matrix
Financial Risk Profile
Business Risk Profile
Excellent

Minimal

Modest

Intermediate

Significant

Aggressive

Highly
leveraged

aaa/aa+

aa

a+/a

a-

bbb

bbb-/bb+

aa/aa-

a+/a

a-/bbb+

bbb

bb+

bb

a/a-

bbb+

bbb/bbb-

bbb-/bb+

bb

b+

Strong
Satisfactory
Fair

bbb/bbb-

bbb-

bb+

bb

bb-

b

Weak

bb+

bb+

bb

bb-

b+

b/b-

Vulnerable

bb-

bb-

bb-/b+

b+

b

b-

Ratings Detail (As Of September 24, 2019)*
Bao-Trans Enterprises Ltd.
Issuer Credit Rating

A-/Stable/--

Issuer Credit Ratings History
20-Nov-2018

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

A-/Stable/--

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 5

Bao-Trans Enterprises Ltd.

Ratings Detail (As Of September 24, 2019)*(cont.)
23-May-2017

BBB+/Stable/--

23-Sep-2016

BBB+/Watch Neg/--

01-Feb-2016

BBB+/Stable/--

Related Entities
Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. Ltd.
Issuer Credit Rating

A-/Stable/--

Baosteel Resources International Co. Ltd.
Issuer Credit Rating

BBB+/Stable/--

China Baowu Steel Group Corp. Ltd.
Issuer Credit Rating

A-/Stable/--

*Unless otherwise noted, all ratings in this report are global scale ratings. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on the global scale are comparable
across countries. S&P Global Ratings’ credit ratings on a national scale are relative to obligors or obligations within that specific country. Issue and
debt ratings could include debt guaranteed by another entity, and rated debt that an entity guarantees.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 6

Copyright © 2019 by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be
modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party
providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use
of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM
FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY
SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive,
special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by
negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact.
S&P’s opinions, analyses and rating acknowledgment decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The
Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained information from
sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. Ratingrelated publications may be published for a variety of reasons that are not necessarily dependent on action by rating committees, including, but not limited to, the publication
of a periodic update on a credit rating and related analyses.

To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain regulatory purposes, S&P
reserves the right to assign, withdraw or suspend such acknowledgment at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the
assignment, withdrawal or suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result,
certain business units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the right to disseminate
its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is
available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
STANDARD & POOR’S, S&P and RATINGSDIRECT are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT

SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 7

